we're back
did it again did it again
let's go
hey
bangers only
good morning good afternoon good evening
we're coming from hope you all are doing
well welcome back everybody welcome back
class three let's go turn up
[Laughter]
so today's today's the first day with
the hair down so we gotta you know
make sure we're focused on it
prime with the raid let's go
what up ron how you doing hope you're
doing well hope your stream was well
uh we got to make sure that we get folks
coming your way uh hopefully maybe like
a i don't know if you're live on a
sunday but one of these nights we got to
get make sure everyone here gets to come
back and see y'all
now folks
hands down
the best streamer in our category prime
with the raid i appreciate it thank you
so much uh
hands down the best tech streamer best
coding streamer if you have not checked
them out i'll make sure i'll drop a link
to their channel we'll shout them out as
we get going
but you definitely need to swing by
their stream hands down the best
so one of these days hopefully soon we
got to get the raid coming back to you i
appreciate y'all swinging by welcome
everybody
hey
let's go
so for folks that are new we're doing a
30-week
software engineering bootcamp uh we're
starting from the beginnings we're just
in html land right now we're going to go
full 30 weeks give you the skills that
you need to be a full stack software
engineer
last cohort we saw 75 folks get jobs
it's probably a little bit higher now we
had a few come in a couple days ago so
yeah welcome
hey
yeah yeah first day with the hair down
you know you got to do it right you got
to make sure that it's just just just
the focus
right
just the focus
alrighty folks tonight we got a really
good class uh we're probably gonna end a
little early tonight we're gonna get
some lots of hands on keyboard practice
tonight uh we got some more html to get
to uh on class two we didn't get to the
end of everything we need to cover so
tonight we're getting our space
repetition in we're getting our review
in we're making sure that we feel
comfortable with the topics that have
been taught so far and then we're
pushing
i'll push a little bit further
right we're gonna push a little bit
further right
and then
we're gonna get down to actually typing
some stuff tonight we're going to be
building three different websites
something we've already seen before
we're going to make sure we go over the
bbc together we're going to look at khan
academy together and we're going to look
at tech crunch together and we're going
to code it all out so if you're here to
get some practice in tonight you're in
the right spot if you're here to just
look at some
beautiful hair you're in the right spot
but uh if you're down to learn let's get
into it we always like to start with a
little bit of questions
the question of the evening
is as such
would you rather like snap your fingers
and they produce a new season
of your favorite television so
or you snap your fingers and they
produce a sequel to your favorite movie
so do show or movie and chat for me
please show our movie
thanks again for uh for the raid i
really appreciate it
oh folks are going show
seeing that show go wild okay
man i thought it'd be a little bit more
balanced but now you all are definitely
feeling the
the show over the movie here so i just
watched over the weekend
two seasons
of snow piercer
two
whole seasons
while y'all were doing your shay how
reading
i i just i tore through snow piercer
it was it was pretty it's pretty wild
love the movie
love the tv show and so
i as soon as i was done the second
season i was like come on they gotta
give me a third and so if i could have
snapped my fingers in that moment i
would have picked another season still
piercer but
third season comes out
in a couple days
and then they've already planned the
fourth season i'm still going to snap it
give me give me a fifth season
all right everybody always discover
questions what questions you got for me
tonight
will we use emmett for abbreviation at
some point not really it's not something
that i like my folks to start off
especially in the beginning
but like i said once we get through the
basics together it's up to you you can
do whatever you want i just like to show
the basics first i like to get folks
comfortable using tools that they might
not have access to during interviews and
then if you decide that there's
something that's going to improve your
workflow by all means go for it
what if we get the homework done i'll
talk about the homework in a little bit
we got we got a whole slide for it um
but yeah what the goal is that you get
the homework done on time
if you're shooting for touring or hopper
you actually got to get stuff in on time
if you're in hamilton you can take your
own pace uh and life happens right life
happens uh one of my dear friends and
somebody i consider a mentor always told
me god family academics right so god
family academics something i live up to
family's gonna come first right your
your your
your responsibilities have to come first
learning will take a back seat to that
but you can always catch up in fact
we have
ketchup crew which we'll talk about in a
few seconds
roy said why are you a floating head
right now because i want you to focus on
the hair tonight
this is gonna be a little bit shorter of
a class because we're just getting a lot
of review in and so if we're going to
get a little bit short of a class a
little bit more time to focus
uh i might as well focus on the hair
let's get a few more questions in while
folks get in here folks are always
trying to run to their computer right as
the the stream is starting
where do we submit the homework uh we're
gonna get into all that in a bit but if
you noticed whenever there's homework
due
in the
message for today in the following
materials channel there will always be a
place to submit it
my hair routine uh my hair routine is
not that wild
i use ogx products
i don't shampoo every day
uh i don't even wash my hair every day
which is pretty normal so a lot of times
i'll just have my hair up
i feel special for y'all so i get in
there
and then uh shea moisture every other
every every couple of days as well
and then just lots of water you gotta
drink your water folks
how far advanced will we learn css uh so
on thursday we start css so today is
like our last day of just html thursday
we get into the thick of it with css
and so by the end of our time with html
and css i should be able to give you a
photo
and you should be able to build that
photo in html and css like if i give you
a website you should be able to build
that website in html and css now
you could spend your whole career
building stuff right
building stuff with just html and css
we don't care about perfection we write
zombie code around here we just want it
to work we wanted to look at it and be
like yep that was the design that was
the site and so you'll have your whole
career to like get really into it to
like really understand all the
nitty-gritty details why things work to
go super deep into to all the different
types of layout systems but for us and
our purposes our goal is the job right
and so we're going to learn enough so
that we can get our sites up and live
looking good and move on
we don't have to be pixel perfect
exactly no pixel perfect around here
what is my preference front end back end
i love back end
stick me in the back ends i want to
worry about stuff let me build my apis
in peace and and call it a day
yeah if running running gives me too
many nightmares
we cover uh sequel no we're going to be
focusing mainly on mongodb we'll touch a
little bit of
postgres um
but mainly mongodb
what kind of team i drink it's always
the same it's always that that tazzo
vanilla try i need to i need to get a t
sponsor is what we need
oh bootstrap material or tailwind well
our og sam you can do bang exclamation
point sam here in chat uh
they uh they're they're they're going
with material ui so i'm gonna go with
them as well
it's got a new gig
cool alrighty folks looks like we got
the whole crew in here
i'm glad you stuck by
let's uh let's let's move on from the
questions and let's see what we're going
to talk about tonight
so
tonight we're getting our review in
i like to go slow in the beginning i
really do
for folks this is if this is your first
time a lot of this stuff can be
overwhelming a lot of this stuff it can
just be a real
real torture in the beginning if you've
never touched code so we have folks from
all ranges here we've had folks that
have like
built full stack apps already and
they're here to learn stuff that's going
to help them get a job we have folks
that have literally never opened a text
editor before so this first week
two weeks is really going to go a little
bit slower than you would see in other
programs see in other places i really do
want to get that review in i really do
want to make sure that folks kind of get
a clue as to what's going on then we
pick it up we get a little bit faster we
get a little bit faster we get a little
bit faster right so if you're if you're
brand new this is gonna be great review
for you today if you already kind of
know what you're doing with html and css
great
go fast like when we get to our coding
challenges today see how fast you can go
see how far you can go push yourself in
that moment but for folks that are brand
new let's take our time let's ease into
it and we'll move on to css uh on
thursday
cool so we're going to review of course
the client server model we're going to
see some html tags we're going to take a
peek at that brownie recipe just to just
to talk through some of those semantic
decisions we're going to see some new
html tags that we didn't get to on
thursday we're going to talk about the
second most important thing of the
evening first is always separation of
concerns but the second most important
thing is even will be progressive
enhancement and talking through why
that's an important concept and why as
newly knighted developers of the web we
need to incorporate that into our
building of our front ends
we're going to build uh the bbc together
so if you've been sweating that homework
that's going to be due on thursday we're
going to actually do some of it together
not all of it but some of it
we're going to do khan academy together
and we're going to look at another
newspaper or news website called
techcrunch and build it so there will be
kind of like
us walking through it together we're
going to we're going to highlight circle
stuff we're going to not like highlight
in terms of notes we're going to like
circle different pieces of it we're
going to talk through the design and
then you're going to get a few minutes
to code it and then we're going to go
over it together and we're going to do
that at least three times today so if
you kind of been sweating the writing
the html
boom we're going to get into it three
four times tonight
any way to get rid of the ads while
watching the vods well
uh our past two classes are up on
youtube and i do not monetize my youtube
uh so you can go on youtube and watch
the past two classes without any ads
yeah so that's why it's why i keep the
the youtube not monetized
so that you can just watch them ad free
yeah
now
there are some rumors that
youtube will be
um
that youtube will be kind of turning on
ads even for
um
non-monetized channels if that happens
then we'll have to figure out some other
way but for now i'm monetized bugaboo
got two interviews back to back tomorrow
let's go wish you luck hey wish you all
the luck in the world good luck
you don't need it you got it you're
built for this
alrighty
so that's what we're up to today and uh
at the start we got to talk about a few
things we got to talk about some discord
stuff uh discord has been popping off we
got 20 000 people in there now uh so
we're going to
talk through some changes that we made
some more changes that are coming and so
that's where we spend a little bit of
time in the beginning just to make sure
everybody's on the same page in terms of
how we're going to use discord going
forward to make sure folks get the help
that they need
and to reduce the burden on some of our
mods right
so let's get into that and then we'll
get into the actual code
all right
if you haven't checked in yet uh please
go ahead and check in you can always do
exclamation point check in uh remember
the
link to check in is always in the follow
along materials channel and it's always
in the go live uh message right so
uh you don't have to to
wait until you get here to check in you
can always just go ahead and look at
those two messages and and grab the link
cool
you might have to scroll over chat and
slow it as nightbot post it if you need
the link
uh as always please go ahead and give it
a like and a retweet that's your
attendance
if you're shooting for touring or hopper
attendance is mandatory uh if you're in
hamilton and just want to support the
stream go ahead and do the like and the
retweeting uh if you're following on
youtube go ahead and give us a like a
thumbs up go ahead and click the
notification bell right that helps a lot
and the folks finding a free software
engineering bootcamp instead of paying
lots of money to go to one
cool
submitting your homework finally
if there's one question that has been
asked to me of the past week
is how do you submit the homework
let somebody come through on the raid
who that was
thank you for the raid
not showing up in my
notifications
appreciate the raid thank you
if anybody saw who that was can you
paste it into the chat for me please
here
all righty
cool so here's how you submit the
homework
stock for machines a thank you so much
for the for the host i appreciate it
alrighty
here is how you submit the homework
or homework that was due today you had
to watch two ollie abdominal videos
which are amazing videos and then you
had to go through the coursera learning
how to learn
what i want
is for you to submit that completion of
coursera
right so on coursera you will have like
a section that shows you all the stuff
that you completed
i want you to take a screenshot of that
you're gonna have to figure out how to
do a screenshot on your operating system
each operating system is slightly
different how you do a screenshot right
but you're going to do a screenshot of
that page where you've completed
everything
right
and so
you're going to do that screenshot where
you've completed everything and you're
gonna upload that screenshot
to that google form in the link right
there on the slides
or if you looked in the follow along
materials channel i give you the link
there as well
now
the wonderful thing about coursera
is it covers so many topics that we
don't have a chance to cover
in class
that was a four-week course that i asked
you to get done in one week there's no
way we could spend all that time live
going through everything
and what you'll notice is that
a lot of the things were covered in that
coursera course that are going to help
you day-to-day learning how to code but
they also supplement the things that we
do cover in class right this idea of
chunking is so important when you tie
that in with your
space repetition and your active recall
they're like things that if you did not
go through that course you are at a
severe disadvantage going forward so
please if you have it you must get
through that course you must finish it
don't do the rest of this program
without having gone through that course
you will be at a severe disadvantage for
everything that we cover going forward
cool
now uh take your screenshot proving that
you completed everything
uh upload it to some sort of image
sharing i gave you image bb and then uh
go ahead and submit it in that google
form okay
if you're trying to keep up with touring
and hopper guess what homework's do when
it's due you gotta get it in
okay
once the houses are formed we'll have a
special channel where you can let us
know that like hey like i'm gonna be
late because family or something else
popped up that's okay like life life
gets in the way that's okay
we understand that you're giving up your
nights and your weekends to be here
and so stuff's gonna happen
try and get it in on time
alrighty
before we get into some of the discord
stuff and the things that i want to
cover tonight i gotta give a a psa
and that's to be uh to be careful out in
these streets folks
uh to be careful
uh
interacting with folks
out there in this world
because
100 devs we've been we've gone trending
folks we've gone trending the 100 devs
has hit the trending on twitter a couple
of times in the technology section and
so now
everyone knows who we are we out there
right we outside we we're inside but we
outside you know i'm saying and so
be careful
now that 100 devs has become bigger
and we're 20 000 deep on discord there's
gonna be scammers there's gonna be folks
that are trying to get you twisted and
do things that you shouldn't do but
around here we don't get got we go get
so don't get got out in these streets
make sure you're taking care of yourself
and look out for others in the community
if you're using the hundred devs hashtag
on twitter i've seen it all i've seen
people like trying to make you buy
courses i've seen people that are like
sending you to like weird discords i've
seen folks that are like using 100 devs
and pretending that they're like me like
be careful
i'm never
ever
ever ever ever i gotta go big for this
ever ever ever ever ever
gonna ask you for money
just i'm just not
there's never gonna come a time where i
ask you for money there's never gonna be
a time where i ask you for a gofundme uh
there's never going to be a time where i
asked you for some cryptocurrency uh
there's never going to be a time
where i asked for monetary things of any
nature so if someone is pretending to me
to be me and asking you for those things
please know that i have told you that i
will never ask for those things okay
so be careful
uh we only have one discord that's the
learn with leon and friends discord uh
there's 20 000 of us on there there are
a lot of people pretending that we have
other discords we don't we have one
amazing discord that is uh overseen by
an amazing crew of moderators that want
to keep you safe and healthy
even in this amazing moderated space we
still have scammers you got to be
careful
do not click those free nitro links
right we stepped up the security on
discord but nobody's sharing free nitro
links please don't click that stuff like
be careful out here we're a bigger
community unfortunately there are some
shitty people in this world and they're
going to want to take advantage of a
bigger group of people that are all new
to learning how to code right and that
might be willing to click on a few
things
okay
so please
be careful
as we get larger
i feel like a boomer what's nitro nitros
like um discords like boost like you get
like extra features when you're nitro on
discord and so a lot of people try to
scam others by like giving them free
nitro links whether they input their
credit card and stuff like that just
don't don't ever worry about that stuff
don't do it um
thank you to everyone that
nitro boosts our server on discord but
it's never needed i'm never gonna share
a way for you to do it uh there's no
links to do it please please don't
be careful okay
uh if you see somebody scamming or
spamming on discord please just at the
mods you can just do at friends mods so
that we can see it and we're pretty
clicked to delete delete everything and
ban those people
right now you need to have a verified
email to join discord and in like a week
or two we're going to make it so that
you have to have a verified phone number
if you want to join discord like again
right so if you're in you're good you're
in you're good but going forward we're
gonna crank the protection all the way
up to stop folks from coming in um
when we don't want them to so just note
be careful out in these streets it's
getting wild i've seen it all be careful
all right
the other thing that i've been seeing a
lot
and that i really want to
take some time to emphasize
is that
going through this program
is going to take a little bit of trust
in myself
a little bit of trust in our moderators
a little bit of trust in our alumni have
gone through the program
and like i told you i'm going to work on
earning it
but you got to give me a little time to
earn it
right
and the very first rule whenever
somebody asks you to trust them is just
as this gift mentions trust nobody
not even me that's right you heard it
folks first
heard it you heard it first here don't
trust me
right
here's why
what we are going through together
is a process that i've been working on
for 10 plus years
i've been teaching people to code for 10
years i have seen it all
i have assigned things that sucked i
have assigned things that were great i
have assigned things that nobody needed
to use on the job and i have assigned
things that everyone needed on the job
i used to be in the classroom i had
eight plus years like in the classroom
with multiple cohorts of students like
two to three nights a week for like
eight years like literally in the
classroom with real living breathing
people like meat space like i could i
could poke them right i could poke them
right
i stay in contact with a lot of my
students
i i know what's been helpful to them and
i know what's not been helpful to them i
know what comes up and i know what
doesn't come up
i'm trying to distill all of that into a
course
right so that means sometimes i'm gonna
do stuff that seems a little weird
i'm gonna do stuff that maybe other
tutorials aren't doing
right
one of the questions i get asked all
that once we get to css this is gonna be
the i just know i'm gonna see to see
discord a bazillion times leon
why do you teach floats
well
i teach floats
because i've had
dozens of students that have come back
to me and said leon
thank you so much
for teaching me floats because the very
first project i got
was converting an old code base from
floats to flexbox i would have been
if i did not know what floats were
right
and so
that's why we start with floats now do i
love flexbox so i love css grid yes do i
want you to use that going forward yes
but i understand
working with that stuff is an
overwhelming privilege that not all of
you will get so i need you to show up on
the job
and be ready
and i can't have you showing up to the
job and not knowing the simple stuff
so i spend a lot of time
on simple stuff that other kind of
programs might skip or go through faster
because i don't want you to show up and
week one bumble the easy project i don't
want you to show up in that first month
fumbling the stuff that you should
probably have already done the reason
why i don't tell you to use prettier out
the gate is because i want you to be
able to do it because when you're on a
system for some reason on a on a vm that
you have to log into you have to use
their editor and their editor doesn't
have prettier i want you to know how to
do it
right
i've seen it all i've seen people get
twisted and do weird stuff
so we're gonna do
it
in a way that i know has helped a lot of
people that has worked for a lot of
people
now
my way
might not be the way that works
for you
okay
the way i teach you might not like might
not like my hair down today that's okay
this
is my attempt at helping as many folks
as i can
but if this isn't for you after you give
me a couple classes you give me that
month you say leon you know what seem
like a cool person it's going too slow
it's going too fast it might not be for
me that's okay
that's okay
there are so many phenomenal courses out
there that you can do
for folks that need a little bit more
kind of hand holding more fingers on
keyboard time free code camp is amazing
at that
for folks that want to go a little bit
faster and want to learn ruby instead of
javascript
the odin project is phenomenal
for folks that have already coded before
right and want to know the modern modern
stack full stack open is incredible i
tell all of my alumni to go do full
stack open because it's just it's just
that good
so there are some phenomenal resources
out there right
that are not
this
so when you come here
you're you're buying into
right you're buying into the path that
i've seen work for a lot of folks and
we're going to do things a little bit
differently
and so i'm going to ask you to trust me
a little bit
i'm going to work on earning that trust
hopefully you see me popping off in
discord answering all those questions
putting in
hours every day to help you all right
but you don't have to take my word for
it you don't have to trust me right and
i don't want you to because there are
lots of folks out there that are
scamming that are scheming so go into it
with a skeptical heart
right go into it with a skeptical eye
don't trust me let me earn it
right let me earn it
right go check the celebrations channel
let me bring alumni to talk to you let
me show you the way
right
but you don't have to you don't have to
do this like there are so many other
phenomenal programs that might be more
your speed and i don't want you to feel
upset i want you to feel guilt i don't
want you to feel
like you're doing something wrong by
choosing one of those other programs
because they are good and you might get
something out of it that you might not
have gotten here
but
what i'm going to do is try and put
together material and a process and a
way of doing things that i've seen be
successful in my 10 years in the
classroom and if you think that has
value then stick around let me earn a
little bit of that trust
but if i can tell you anything
don't give people that trust implicitly
just because we look good we got good
hair
we we talk a big game
check the receipts
check the receipts okay and i say this
as a as a way
of telling you to be careful out in
these streets
let's be careful on these streets
they're everybody at every turn
wants that dollar
right they want you to to do things that
you probably shouldn't be doing that you
don't have to do so make people earn
that trust a little bit and then see if
it's for you no harm no valve it's not
for you but i think we're building a
phenomenal community that wants you to
be successful i think we're building a
phenomenal program that's going to give
you what you need to get a job in tech
and it's not just code it's everything
else
okay
now one last thing about this is that
this ain't my job
this ain't my moderator's job this ain't
our alumni's job we do this because we
want to help others right
if it's not fun we're not going to do it
right so don't be mean to the mods don't
be mean to me like we're just going to
ban you right like and we're not going
to lose any sleep over this we don't we
don't got numbers to keep we don't we
don't have some boss that we have to
make happy we're doing this because
we want folks to be
successful in a career in software
engineering um but
we could we could go do other stuff with
our hours right
so shout out to the mods right
please be helpful please listen to them
please take their guidance because they
don't have to be here
i can't tell you how many hours these
mods have given up in the past week or
so like hours like we're in meetings for
two hours then they're moderating for
four or five hours a day right like
this ain't this ain't their job they
don't have to be here they could they
could click off discord and go away but
they don't because they want you to be
successful
right so just be a little bit kind to
them right like make sure you respect
that idea and make sure that that you're
you're participating in community that
you want to belong to
because as i said in the beginning
you can't be nice
if you you can't realize
or or realize that people have flaws or
things coming into this process that
they might not be the best engineer
right out the gate if you can't accept
that
get the out
click click exit get the out i'm
gonna keep saying it all right i'm gonna
for the first moment i'm gonna keep
saying it because i just don't want
people in this community that can't be
kind first that can't be nice first that
can't go out of their way to help others
if you don't want to do that
get the out
cool
and and that includes being
positive to yourself being kind to
yourself i see so many folks that are
kind to others
but they can't be kind to themselves
be positive even on discord carry your
head high you're going to get this stuff
you're going to work out you're going to
get the help that you need
but i see some people that like take out
time out of their day to be nice to
others but then i see them saying like
stuff in the threads calling themselves
dumb or that they'll never get it no
keep your head up be kind to yourself
it's not just others you know
all right next big thing on the docket
houses
uh i feel attacked
it's not known to be attacked it's just
meant to be a good reminder
the the positivity like that you put out
comes back right and so when you're on
discord try and be positive right try
try and keep a head up doesn't mean that
you can't go into the struggle bus
channel and lay it all on the line
that's totally fine but uh be kind to
yourself that's all i'm asking there
cool
houses next week a lot of folks are
asking about touring hopper
we are going to settle that all next
week we're going to make sure that if
you're interested in joining those
houses that you can
we won't share anything else before next
week so you don't have to ask can you
still apply you don't to ask is it still
open yes it's still open still shoot
your shot still apply we're going to
cover how that whole process will shake
down next week and the part of the
reason why we're doing that is because
we want to see who got the homework in
we want to see who's been participating
in the community we need a little bit
more information from y'all to make sure
that we're doing good right and so next
week we're going to share more about the
houses if you're like i have no idea
what the houses are boy do we have a
lovely faq section that's on discord or
on leonwell.com 100 devs you can do bang
100 devs see that wonderful
faq section to describe what we've
shared about houses so far so faq on
discord or faq on my site i'll tell you
more about it but next week
also not this but next week we're going
to be doing a twitter space y'all love
twitter spaces
y'all really do
so we're going to do an alumni twitter
space uh not this week but next week
friday uh it'll be friday january 28th
we're going to start at six o'clock
uh and we're gonna have a bunch of
alumni there that you can ask a bunch of
questions they're gonna tell you about
their background their experience how
they got their jobs all that fun stuff
uh so if you don't know what twitter
spaces don't worry i'll share out more
information uh twitterspace is kind of
like a voice call on twitter
it's just a way for
folks to all get into a call and hear
each other talk and ask questions and
it's a little bit easier to facilitate a
a larger a larger conversation so
we'll be doing that twitter space not
this friday but the following friday
all right
also
this week however
we'll be sharing our survey all right
we'll be sharing our survey
for
smaller study groups
uh it is like clubhouse yeah it's
exactly a clubhouse i will be sharing
our survey for smaller study groups so
if you're feeling that you know what the
larger discord is too overwhelming it's
too much for you right we're gonna be
forming smaller study groups it'll be
based on a lot of different stuff it can
be location it can be uh affinities for
different things it can be professional
we have a lot of teachers that are that
have been wanting to organize so we're
gonna have these study groups that'll be
ways of kind of connecting with smaller
groups of folks in a hundred devs uh and
we're gonna have ways for those little
pockets to have their own channels their
own voice channels so that you can
really start using discord to hang out
more and to get help a little bit more
easily and so we'll be sharing that
survey this week and you fill that out
and then next week we'll be placing you
into those study groups
all right
we've been tearing up on that discord
folks there's a lot of stuff that we've
been changing a lot of stuff that we're
still trying to figure out and get right
but i wanted to talk through some really
important stuff when it comes to discord
okay some important stuff that i need i
need your help with i need you all
to buy into some of these ideas and and
help us reduce some of the burden on the
moderators and on all the folks that
show up to help you there's so many
folks that show up to help
and we want to make sure that discord is
running well so that folks can get the
help that they need
okay
alrighty
uh if your username is still gray click
today
uh when you join the server there's a
couple things you have to do
uh you have to click our rules
if you do not click the rules and agree
to the rules on the server uh you don't
see you don't see anything
right
and so iron squad exactly right and so
if on discord you haven't clicked the
rule like agreed to the rules you're
like missing out on like most of discord
right
and then once you've agreed to the rules
there's also this channel called join
100 devs
you have to click those emojis to get
access to all the 100 dev stuff
right so if you have a gray username you
have not joined 100 devs on discord
which means that there's a lot of
channels that are still
missing for you
so make sure today you go to join 100
devs you click those emoji so you get
access to everything if you have a gray
username right if your username is still
gray click today you don't want to be
missing out on those channels and all
the stuff that we'll be adding you won't
be able to get into study groups you
won't be able to get into any of the
other stuff that's coming on discord if
you don't click those two emojis
rebel thank you for the posture check
i'm good
all right
iron squad
alrighty
please
pretty please
with the biggest of cherries on top
use
the search bar
but i gotta go big for this
please
use the search bar
okay
please use the search bar
if i see
one more person
asks
how to submit the homework
no
god
no god please no no
no
here's what that looks like
i just typed in turn in homework not
submit homework not something but look
75 results for turn in homework and that
was like that was like a that was a
couple days ago today i bet you it's
like over a hundred easily easily 150
right
that and then if you turn it to like
submit like another hundred like so like
200 times it's been asked right
but our lovely moderator
already answered that question
they've already answered it
multiple times
so before you ask
a simple question right
homework simple question right just use
the search bar
please use the search bar
because when you search for it you're
probably going to see
a lot of other people that asked and
you're going to see some
responses
right so if you have a question that you
think a lot of other people might have
or you just want to check
just use the search bar
right use the search bar you're going to
see the response in there and the
beautiful thing is that the search bar
right the the search bar actually has a
lot of like ways to like dial in
right you can you can search for just
messages from me
right so that'd be really cool like if
you know like if you look at art if you
look on discord you'll see a list of
moderators right so you could look for
messages just from me
you could look for messages just from
our moderators because they've probably
already answered that question right or
if there's somebody that you know is
like really helpful in the cohort you
could search for their username and see
all the responses that they've done
right
and so it's in the top right hand corner
of discord you can always search for
stuff you can search in certain channels
you can search from certain individuals
you can look at certain times you can
see if it has a certain thing and so
just get comfortable before you ask
something kind of basic or simple just
use the search bar because i guarantee
somebody else has probably already asked
it
cool
let's not let
make sure
that that me leaning is me trying to
unlock my ipad
uh i would have turned on my
my drawing capabilities here
cool let's let's let's stop
let's stop uh put on demo bro there we
go sorry let's uh let's stop this from
happening in the future
i don't know
all right now let me draw
there we go okay
there we go i think my apple pencil died
that's why i use my finger let's let's
stop that from happening again please
please please please all right
another really important thing
that comes up on discord right that
comes up on discord but it also just
comes up in any other place that you get
help as an engineer
um we have a like
and i think this is for a lot of people
we have this idea of like wanting to be
respectful of people's time and their
space and so we'll often ask hey can i
ask a question
right or does anybody have some time to
answer a question or is anybody really
good at html or is anybody really really
good at discord like you'll put that out
there
right you'll put out that you'll put out
like that question hoping to get a
response and then you'll ask your
question
please don't do that
right
you don't exactly you don't need
permission to ask we're all here because
we want to help you we're all here
because we want to answer those
questions right so just ask your
question
right just just be to the point ask your
question you can use things like please
and you can put a thank you at the end
of it right if you feel like you got to
be extra nice right but just go ahead
and ask your question
really try to stop yourself from like
asking to ask a question
okay
we all a lot of us start off by doing it
it's okay it's just that
when you are interacting with other
engineers like eventually when you get
on a team with other engineers you just
got to ask the question so that they can
do it asynchronously they can come back
later and um and and and fill in that
answer when they have time but if you
say does anyone have time to answer a
question they they don't know how long
that's going to take to answer that it
puts more weight on the person that's
going to answer the question if they
don't know what it is so just ask your
question
okay
um
before you type in a discord channel
please read the channel heading
right each channel has like a heading
that describes like what you can do
inside of that channel
okay
and so please make sure you you give
those a read
before you actually start typing in it
because some things are allowed in some
channels and some aren't allowed in
others okay so make sure you just read
that channel heading um
and
something weird happened last class
and i know i'm opening them i'm opening
myself up to the slaughter here a little
bit but i think it's worthwhile to bring
it up again
last class i said please
don't ask questions in the ask leon
channel that other folks could answer
and then like a hundred of you all just
ask the question
and so i think that there's a little bit
of maybe me not being clear enough or or
it's not coming through a little bit
it's okay
but please
don't use the ask leon channel for
something that somebody else could
answer
we have a lovely new channel called new
need help so if you're new and you need
help we have people that are paying
attention to that channel that want to
help folks that are new
okay
then
if you need homework help we have a
channel called homework help right so
you could go there right
things that moderators or other folks
can answer they don't go and ask leon
i like to keep ask leon
clean
because it's really important that when
folks have something that they really
need help with i can get to them like
things that can go in the ask leon
channel are leon i have an interview
coming up and i need you to be a
reference
or leon i just got an offer i need help
negotiating right if you're filling that
with stuff that are just like basic like
how the course works
when to submit homework that means it's
really hard for me to see the folks that
really do need my help
like when they need it
okay and so please keep ask leon clear
use every other channel
before askleon
cool
robo thank you for the gift itself
and uh each channel has a heading that
tells you like what can happen in there
uh and we're gonna be pretty serious now
like the first week we kind of gave it
to you we let you do what you like we
let it kind of slide um but now if
you're in askleon and you're not asking
a question i'm just going to delete it
like the mods are just going to delete
it i'm just going to delete it right
if you're responding to someone and ask
leon we're just going to delete it
because the only person that should be
responding there is myself or the mods
okay
so please
we're gonna we're gonna start turning up
discord a little bit and to make it work
we're just gonna start deleting okay
all right
often uh myself and mods will put like
really important messages in the
channels
right
and they'll be very clear
like it'll be very clear when we're
trying to get your attention
uh here was me trying to be very very
clear
uh that please only share your twitter
and linkedin and threads above all
others will be deleted thank you and
then i you not like three seconds
later
not even three it's like a minute later
uh somebody posted their twitter right
below
right so please
when you see like flashing lights and
stop signs uh please stop and read that
stuff
right i i blanked out their name i don't
like i don't want anybody to see it but
like
please read it
uh
you're making more work for our mods
right you're making more work for our
mods and like i said nobody's getting
paid this ain't our job we do it because
we love this community and we want to
help y'all so make our lives a little
bit easier so we don't have to kind of
deal with this stuff okay
um that being said uh in the networking
channel uh the networking channel should
be more for like networking events like
places that you're going things that
you're doing conferences stuff like that
we have these two threads uh a twitter
thread and a linkedin thread uh for
folks that want to share their twitter
or linkedin right
we're gonna have like lots of like meet
and greets
we're gonna have like our own events
where we get to know each other as a
cohort so you'll have time to like meet
folks as we get into the program
we don't do those super early because we
only want folks that are like actually
in the program a lot of y'all are kind
of checking it out seeing this is for
you but like a month in and we'll start
doing more meet and greets we'll start
doing more sessions where you can hang
out with each other get to know each
other a little bit more
but if for some reason you're you're
just burning to share your twitter and
your linkedin there's threads for it now
anything that's not put in those threads
step step we're going to delete it okay
alrighty
got a few more and then we'll take our
break
uh we've we tested something starting
yesterday
in the homework help channel
we have a new bot
that makes everything
a thread
okay
so any question that you ask
is now a thread
right so um you can see here in the
example hey everyone for the bbc html do
we need to build the html for the
navigation bar too
great question
discord is way too hard to like read all
the replies and everything especially
when there's a lot
of
a lot of responses so now your question
will automatically be turned into a
thread
and if you want to answer that person's
question
right if you want to answer that
person's question you have to go into
the thread to respond to them
if you click reply like normal we're
going to delete it
let me say it again
if you just click reply
we're going to delete that reply you
have to go into the thread to respond to
that person directly
and so before you even ask a question
use the search bar see if somebody else
has already asked that question and then
if not just go ahead and type out your
question and it will automatically be
turned into a thread you don't have to
worry about threads or anything any
question you type into the help channels
will automatically be turned into a
thread
and
people can respond to you in that thread
that way you're not scrolling through
thousands of replies and other chit chat
so in the help channels there should
only be questions that are threads and
then people responding in those threads
okay
if you type anything else into the help
channel it's gonna get turned into a
thread and it's gonna be weird if you're
like if you're like huzzah i figured out
the the bbc homework right
that's gonna be a thread
and we don't need that in the help
channel you can do that somewhere else
right like in in our general chit chat
channels or something like that but be
mindful if people are coming to the help
channels we got to be respectful of
people that are coming to those channels
we have mentors giving up hours of their
day coming after work tired and weary to
go into those help channels and go to
war right and so let's make it easier
for them to help others right by having
these threads
okay
alrighty
so we at threads
and uh you have the power to help
uh now that we have these threads jump
on in there right
you all will know something that
somebody else does not at different
stages of this process
okay
i don't care if you think you're a super
new beginner that's okay you're going to
pick something up that might be able to
help somebody else so jump into their
thread and and help them out a little
bit right
if you know that if you know how to
solve something that they ask go ahead
and help them out right because i
guarantee you at some point you're going
to know something that somebody else
does not and then a few weeks later
they're going to know something that
that you don't know and they're going to
jump in the thread to help you right so
don't don't forget that you got power if
you made it through some of the shay how
you know more than folks that haven't
made it through the shahao also shout
out to shayhao they just sent me a dm on
twitter they want to come and hang out
with us so we're going to have maybe
either a twitter space or we might bring
them up on stream uh to
talk through some of the some of the
decisions that they put into their um
into their course or their their kind of
the thing that we've been working
through
yeah
it's pretty cool
all right
so you got the power jump into those
threads help each other out
during this course
any assignment i give you
i'm going to eventually give you the
solution
okay
any assignment that i give you there
will eventually be a solution
most of the time
like 80 of the time we're going to do it
together live
right like you're going to get assigned
something
and then
like the week later we're probably going
to go over it together
okay
if for some reason we don't go over it
together you're just going to get a file
that is the solution file right but like
80 90 of the time we're probably going
to go over it together
so you don't actually need
like a full code review
it's something that a lot of people ask
for on discord that you that you don't
really need somebody will say like can
somebody check this bbc for me
you don't have to do that we're gonna
have the solution you're gonna you're
gonna be able to compare it right you're
gonna be able to put in that cognitive
effort to like look at yours look at
mine and go hmm
where do i agree with leon and where do
i not right
i don't think he made the most semantic
choice here or i think i think in terms
of accessibility you might have done
things a little bit differently right
and so you will always have the ability
to like compare your answers to mine
now
please don't ask for full code review
right that's just too much time for
someone when you're going to get right
when you're going to get the full
solution down the line okay
if you have specific questions that's
totally fair game if you're stuck on
something if there's something that you
think doesn't make sense right like if
you're really confused about something
in your code that's a really worthwhile
question
but just saying look at all this that's
a pretty lazy question right that puts
too much
on the person that wants to help you
right that puts too much on the person
that wants to help you to have to figure
out everything for you
we want barbara
all right
the idea here is make sure that you're
being respectful of the other person's
time is going to help you don't don't
ask for a full code review if you got
you have a specific question right if
you have a specific thing that you that
you get stuck on ask that people will
help
cool
uh
we'll be taking our top of our break
soon got a few more here
sam thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
please leave voice channels when you're
not chatting uh so you don't get got
a lot of you all jump in the voice
channels and then you like forget that
you're in voice channels and i've heard
some some wild stuff i've heard some
things
i've heard some things
and so uh please
please
make sure
make sure that you leave voice channels
when you're done chatting so you don't
get got just make it a habit don't hang
out on voice channels
just leave them if you're not actively
talking leave
all right
there's been there's been a lot of hot
mic situations and i don't want that to
happen to you so don't get got leave
your voice channels
uh often mods will kick you out of voice
channels if like nobody's talking uh
just because we don't want that to
happen to you um so if you like real if
you got kicked out of a voice channel
it's probably because we thought maybe
like nobody was talking in that channel
we don't want you to get got but please
leave voice channels
i know a few of you what you had for
dinner
because i heard you talking in the
background about what you were going to
eat for dinner with your significant
other uh so so please
channels
that's why leon's always sipping tea
[Laughter]
quantum
alrighty
we got some new channels
uh we got a new need help channel so if
you're new and you need help go to that
channel first lots of folks will be able
to help you and uh if you've been around
for a week or more guess what you can
help the new folks that join so hang out
in the new need help uh answer their
questions uh homework help is a new
channel
right where if you have questions about
the homework you can go there
that homework help channel was the first
channel that we had the thread system on
and we're gonna bring that thread system
to every other help channel so the new
need help the the other help channels
though they will turn into those
threaded uh channels later tonight so
tonight you'll see the full switch all
the help channels will be threads please
do not reply in any of those channels
going forward it'll just be deleted make
sure you're replying to folks in threads
cool
and the other channel i'm really excited
about is the ketchup crew
so a lot of folks are not watching this
live on twitch because they got work
they're a different time zone and they
catch up with the vods on twitch hey
shout out to you in the future um
so we have the ketchup crew and the
ketchup crew has their own channel so
feel free to jump into that channel um
share time maybe that you're going to be
watching the channel and there's
actually a voice channel jump into that
voice channel and start watching the
class if you want you can watch you can
share your your screen and watch the
vods together and that's something that
the last cohort did a lot so there's a
catch-up crew channel
i expect folks to be in that channel
like watching the vods together
and having a grand old time answering
each other's questions and so
feel free to jump into that catch up
crew channel watch the vods together be
able to talk about what's going on
together and so if you're not watching
live join the ketchup crew get in there
and have some fun
all right
we got we got one more one more we're
gonna take our top of the outbreak and
then we're three minutes over
uh the last one is please keep in mind
our server rules
uh we are super invested in creating a
safe environment for folks to learn and
to do their best and to eventually get
that job
we can't moderate stuff that's not on
our server right so i i know wild stuff
has been happening on twitter i know
wild stuff has been happening on other
discords
we can't control or help with that what
we can do is make a wonderful space for
you on our discord and we're super
invested in keeping it a great place for
folks to be in
so we have one rule that's really
important that i want to shout out and
then we're going to go through the chat
etiquette and then we're going to take
our break
we have this rule for no advertising and
read it again
advertising your youtube twitch discord
social media does not belong on this
server
this includes private study groups or
other things that may split the
community and leading folks to
unmoderate 100 dev spaces if somebody's
sharing a space about 100 devs on our
discord the assumption is that we have
created it or that we are moderating it
or that we are taking care of that space
that means if you're leading folks to
spaces that are about 100 devs that are
not on our discord we're going to delete
them and we're going to ban you
because we really do want to make sure
that folks are
kept safe and we can moderate as we need
we prefer folks to be in our voice
channels we prefer prefer folks to be in
there where moderators can listen in and
make sure folks aren't violent right and
so if you share something that's like
trying to convince other people to leave
discord and go somewhere else um we're
going to give you a ban like you won't
be invited back and we're just going to
leave the post okay
yeah
and that's just because we care deeply
about making sure that we have a space
that works for everyone right
now uh the last thing i read out loud i
think on class one i'm going to read it
out loud again uh and it's something
that comes from a dear dear friend and
my executive director at resilient
coders they put this out there something
that we read to every cohort at rc and i
want to make sure i'm reading it out to
you
um
the no advertising rule right there are
some
there are two exceptions to that rule we
have a self promo channel
in that self promo channel you want to
share your youtube your twitch your
discord
go ahead oh sorry you're sorry not your
discord your youtube your twitch or
twitter go ahead right don't share other
communities don't share other like
things that you might try and brand as
100 devs they'll be deleted but if you
want to share like a video you've been
working on or if you're you're going to
go stream go ahead put it in the um
in the self promo channel lots of really
cool people doing lots of cool stuff uh
we do have a stream team uh that if you
start streaming and you feel like you
wanna stream some hundred devs content
or learning to code content you can join
our stream team we'll share more
information about that you'll see some
of our stream team going live soon
the other exception to this rule is the
threads that we created we have a
twitter thread and a linkedin thread in
the networking section go wild in there
but any other place don't advertise
cool
two things and then we're gonna take our
break
like i said comes from my dear dear
executive director dell
uh be kind to one another be the type of
person who stays positive gives people
the benefit of the doubt
see the best in people
embrace diversity of backgrounds
perspective of those things we can
choose and those that we can't accept
your own failures and those of your
peers is an important part of the
process we're all here to write some
vomity chunky chunky code we're all here
to get things wrong to break to fail to
learn to grow to become
a great software engineer right and so
that's all part of that process
and before you share anything on discord
please please ask yourself this one
question it's the only thing i care
about if you're on discord it's the only
thing you think about is i want you to
think about please
ask yourself is this the most supportive
message i can send in this moment if not
please and choose a new message
if it's not the kindest most supportive
thing you can send in that moment don't
send it
i can't tell you how many times i type
out messages and have to delete them
i do it all the time
in the in the in the the ask leon
channel i i typically give short
responses
um because it's just a lot of them
but a lot of times you all ask some wild
questions
that are out of left field and i and i
want to type something and the first
time i type it out guess what
it's not kind
so i delete it
i sit back i think about it and i go how
can i say this in a supportive way how
can i say this in a kind way and then i
rewrite it and sometimes i kind of
rewrite it three or four times but
that's what you're committing to if you
want to be part of this community right
we're not all perfect we get it wrong
right that's okay but ask yourself is
that the most kind of supportive thing
you can send and if that's too much for
you you're like leon i don't want to do
that
right but i don't want to do that i
don't want that that's not for me that's
fine leave go away don't join our
discord don't come to class go by
you don't need it
trying to build a supportive inclusive
wonderful community to belong to if you
can't be kind get the out
all right folks with that being said
let's take our well-deserved break i
know that this first hour was not
anything coding but i think this is
stuff that's really important for our
community to survive and thrive and do
really well
so if you're new around here
we take a break at the top of every hour
or five minutes please
if you're able get up move around
stretch go grab some water kiss some
babies look out the window focus your
eyes on something that that's not that's
not here
right
hey
welcome back
on deluxe thank you so much for the raid
uh you all know them we rated them on
uh sunday
uh amazing raid uh the the the amazing
uh if you're interested in game
development this is the person to watch
uh we're gonna rate them again because
they're just amazing in in being able to
like build stuff from beginning to end
you see the whole process from like
building actual models to building out
like them actually moving around a room
uh they're the channel i i have on in
the background if i'm working because
their energy helps me work better
so super thankful for uh the raid and uh
we're definitely coming right back
because uh it's just an amazing group to
hang out with so thank you so much for
the raid i really appreciate it
um
we are actually getting ready to take a
break
uh at the top of every hour we take a
five-minute break just to be healthy and
make sure that we're we're stretching
moving around a little bit and so let's
go ahead and take that break but i
appreciate the raid thank you all for
stopping by uh we're definitely going to
swing by again soon uh the uh that that
sunday crew is uh is a smaller crew and
i would love to come hang out so i
appreciate the raid
all right folks let's go ahead and take
our break unless you're gonna do a shout
out for them i'll put it in the channel
or if maj if you can throw it in there
ah there we go awesome
you haven't followed them yet go ahead
and give them a follow
there we go all right i'm gonna go ahead
and
go ahead and start our timer here
together
there we go
all right folks go ahead and take your
break please
we'll be back here together we turn on
the music
you for the raid again
bob weiling over here that's funny
i put their um
their twitch name in chat again but if
you haven't given them a follow
on alex the person that rated us go
ahead and give them a follow amazing
amazing
og of the
streaming coding creating space for sure
byron i appreciate that
highest quality floating head i've ever
seen i appreciate it thank you
i just i have a i have a
a gnome shirt that i wear like the
linux
can somebody tell me what a raid is
a raiders is like when folks are done
their stream
they can go to another streamer and all
of their audience goes with them right
like all the people that are in that
channel go with them and so at the end
of each stream
uh we raid someone and so on sunday we
rated lana lux and they're an amazing
streamer
they built video games from like
like soup the nuts like the whole thing
and so they raided us a few minutes ago
and the cool thing about their channel
is that they are literally
like live every day
so if you like them you can just like
chill there all the time i love it
because i like seeing like all the
process of how they create like
that whole world that they're building
but it's just a chill stream to have on
the background too so i like to have
that in the background when i'm working
a lot
all right
yeah thank you for the stretch
i just got a good one in before we uh
came back
all right folks come on back come on
back let's show the music here
this course is also introducing the
whole world of streaming yeah that's
pretty cool there's so many different
people that are in this space that do
really cool stuff like we had two
amazing raids tonight the primogen is
just next level like they're they
they're an engineer at netflix and they
like stream them working on netflix like
that's so cool uh and then uh
nlx is the like just building video
games from from nothing into something
that you can like actually play and see
them working around like it's wild so i
really i really love beyond like see
people's process and how they do stuff
and so
primogen they're also live quite often
we're going to rate them so all the
people that are dope we're going to wind
up raiding and so you'll be able to see
them and get to jump in their channel
oh yeah i appreciate that thank you
appreciate that
all right folks let's get back into it i
think we're all back from the break
all right trophisaro who's in it
who's in the trough of sorrow
who with html are are you are you at the
peak
are you plummeting downwards where are
you at
not yet you are
almost
peak of despair the peak peak peak so i
think a lot of y'all
i think a lot of y'all jumped into that
trough
when i signed the homework
you know
some of y'all thought this was going to
be something else
but then you saw that i assigned
four weeks of a corsair course
in a week
and you went i don't know about this
i don't know about this that they say
four weeks leon's asked me to do it in
one
and then you're like hi no worries i got
it
i got this you know what i'm just gonna
do it
just do it
then do it just do it i'm gonna do it
and you're with me you saw it you're
like you know what i can do it i believe
and i believe in this i can do it i want
this for myself i'm just gonna do it
and then and then i hit you with the
shea how
and uh i felt bad for the first person
that asks but that first person asks
leon just just the first section right
just the first section right
i was like nah nah dawg
nope
i need all
12. and i need all 12 in a week
and as soon as i said i needed 12 in one
week all i all i could see the bells are
turning and as soon as i said 12 in one
week
they took off they're like not for me
dawg not not they say this this is
that's not what i signed up for
uh i don't know if i can do that
so i think a lot of y'all
you made it to the tip
and now
you're crashing
into the trophic sorrow i think you're
still like on the really fun part of it
though i think like your hands are still
in the air you're still being beyonce
you're like you're you're like riding
down you haven't hit the bottom yet
trust me
if you haven't had like that existential
like dread like not knowing like what's
upside down what's up right side up like
if you haven't hit that point yet you're
still like in the fun part you're still
on the wii part like you're still like
i'm beyonce like i'm like i'm i'm flying
down the hill right i feel really bad
people just join live and have no idea
what our reference is i'm just talking
about like domino's nuns and being
beyonce and they're just like what are
you talking about
um so
you're probably not there yet
um but you're gonna get there at some
point in time i'm going to assign
something that's going to be a lot
you're just going to you're going to hit
the bottom and you'll know when you're
there you'll know when you've hit the
bottom
and you're officially in the trough of
sorrow there's like a very sharp like
there's a moment where you wake up and
just go
right i got
29 more weeks to go
uh so if you're not there yet enjoy
enjoy the ride down enjoy being beyonce
and um we'll all get there soon but one
thing i'll say about the homework
is that
homework is
just a first pass
when you're going through the homework
i want you to give it the old
hold on my chair's in a weird spot i
want you to give it the old
100 devs try right like when i give you
homework give it the old 100 devs try
but know
that it's just the first pass
okay
all the important bits
all the stuff that really matters
we're gonna cover together
right so if
if
you're like leon it's too much i just
don't get it don't worry all the really
important bits and bobs we're going to
go over together right so you have this
homework this homework is really
broad in scope it's going to give you so
many little things that are interesting
and things that you should learn about
but it's the first pass
all the core
really important stuff we're going to
recover in class so when i give you
reading
i expect that to be your first time
going through that type of material
but i need it to be
not i need i need class
not to be the first time you've heard
about css
i need a class to not be the first time
that you've heard about the box model
i need class to not be the first time
you've heard about floats or flexbox
right
because if it's the first time
your brain just won't be able to make
the connections in class right so i give
you this homework as a means of a first
pass you're going to give it the good
old 100 devs try you're going to try and
do your active recall your space
repetition but if there's something that
fundamentally does not make sense to you
that's okay we're probably going to
cover it in class
so on
thursday you have the shea how do
but that's just when we start css
literally the the beginning of css is
the day this really hard material is due
and so we're going to come together and
learn the basics of css with the
expectation that you've done the the the
reading already all right and so i don't
want you to panic i don't want you to
feel bad if it doesn't make sense know
that that's your first pass and we'll go
over all the meaty stuff together
all right
i asked you all i gave you the three
secrets you manage your frustration you
be consistent you take care of yourself
and so i got one question for you did
you make a plan who made a plan
who made a plan for their week who
who who woke up today like an accident
who woke up today like an accident
who made up who made a plan
now i'm just getting all twisted you're
saying yes for both all right
if you haven't made a plan for your day
for your weeks for your month you must
be inconsistent takes some planning
don't wake up like an accident have a
plan
right know what you're getting yourself
into
right so if you haven't made a plan for
your week if you haven't had that
conversation with the other folks in
your life
figure that out right
you got to let folks around you know hey
tuesday thursdays i'm in class sundays
i'm at office hours friday i might be
doing a twitter space with the alumni
you gotta let folks know
that you need that time
okay
i made a plan a there you go
all right active recall
remember you can do a quarter of the
work
all right but get better
results
and different said leon's calendar is
the most scheduled and wild thing i've
ever seen yeah i can't show you all my
calendar because i have a lot of like
meetings with people on there that i
can't like put on on stream
um but i promise you it's glorious
as we get later on i do one-on-ones with
a lot of folks and so if you're in a 101
with me i'll show you
all right you can do a quarter of the
work but get better results just by
recalling the things that you learn
don't take notes take questions right
take questions right
and then remember don't put in all this
work just to forget everything you have
to reset your forgetting curve if you
learn something new there's a good
chance by the end of that 30 30 day
period there's an 80 chance that you've
forgotten it flatten that forgetting
curve by using a space repetition tool
like anki
right sider and said do you just not
sleep hell no i need sleep to do what i
do
if i don't get sleep my whole my whole
week's ruined like not even just the day
like the week's a wrap and so i'm very
very very
into making sure i get good sleep i'm
bipolar and so since i'm bipolar i take
medication that like zonks me like it
like
it it puts me out
and if i like do something dumb like
watch a lot of youtube while i'm in like
that good period where it's trying to
put me to sleep and i get through it i
ain't going to sleep and then my whole
day's ruined my whole week's ruined and
so for me sleep is one of the most
important things you can do um and you
learned about that exactly you learned
about that in the course about like what
sleep does how it helps with memory
consolidation and if you're not getting
sleep yeah you messed up
sleeping water exactly
all right
chat what's the internet
those brain toxins
it's a wire yes
a wire that connects two different kinds
of devices we have our client-side
devices
and our server side devices
the code that runs on the client side
the code that runs on our desktops our
laptops our mobile phones what type of
the person that works on that type of
code what do we call them
yeah we call them front end developers
and the individuals that write the code
that runs on the server that hears those
requests knows how to respond store
stuff into a database um processes
credit cards the person that works on
all that stuff what do we call them
yeah we call them back in developers
nice cool if somebody works on
both
if somebody works on both
we call them what
there we go somebody works on both we
call them full stack exactly
now i keep saying that
requests and responses are sent between
the client and the server
what enables those requests to go back
from back and forth between the client
and server like what what's enabling
this to happen what technology
people got it okay
yeah it's sitting on top of the
hypertext transfer
protocol it's just way of sending those
requests and getting those responses
sending information back and forth
across this internet nice well done
all right
i mentioned that
separation of concerns is the most
important thing that we cover in the
beginning it is called the golden rule
we want to keep our content in our html
our style and our css and our behavior
interaction our javascript we don't want
to mix any of these things together why
is this so important why do we keep
separation of concerns
especially as we get into on thursday
css why do we keep everything separate
yeah
organization nice organization right
organization for ourselves and
organizations for the developers that we
work with right if we join another team
and somebody wants to make something
yellow where do we send them they want
to make something yellow where do we
send them
perfect we send them to our css
if we if we want them to make something
when they click on it wiggle where do we
send them
js nice
and if we want to
uh have them enter in like a a new
headline for a newspaper article where
do we send them
html nice all right we're good we're
good let's keep pushing
all right we talked about html as the
first language that we are learning
right we said it's a markup language and
like all languages it has spelling and
grammar rules what do we call the
spelling and grammar rules of a language
there's a special word for it what do we
call it
yeah we call that syntax like the
spelling gram rules the punctuation that
make up that language
we call it syntax so html has a very
interesting bit of syntax
you have your opening tag
right and your closing tag and the way
that the closing tag differs from the
opening tag is that lovely forward slash
right
and so sometimes our opening tags can
have some superpowers or some extra
things that enables that tag to do
and so here we see one of those
superpowers we call them attribute value
pairs so next week when we get into css
and we're trying to style things we're
going to see these classes and ids and
all these things pop up that we need to
put on our html so we know what tags
we're talking to right so we notice that
in our opening tags we can have
attribute value pairs and our closing
tags always have that lovely forward
slash
sometimes however
right
there's a tag that doesn't need a
closing tag
why would a tag maybe not need a closing
tag
yeah because it's self-closing yeah
because if they're already content right
so we saw images images don't have a
closing tag because they're already
content here you can see we're wrapping
around the content that is text hello
world is the text right and so we're
wrapping around that text
beautiful however when we're looking at
say an image it already is content we
don't need to wrap around the content it
is content beautiful
all right
now
why do we have to follow these rules why
do we need to have
the opening tags and the closing tags
why do we need to choose the right
semantic important html tag like why do
we need to have why do we need to follow
these rules
ah i see a lot of people throwing
different ways here yeah it talks about
like kind of like three different main
things that we probably care about
right
we care one about our general users
we saw that if for some reason like an
image broke having that alt tag helped
our general users know that there should
have been a brownie photo there
right so we have our general users if we
don't use the right tags they're just
not going to have a good experience
we also talked about accessibility right
somebody that might be using the
internet in a way that
is something that
might need assistance to move through
that content like a screen reader right
so you might see someone with a screen
reader if you don't use the right tags
they can't move through your page in the
right way or things aren't read to them
in the right way and so you want to make
sure right you want to make sure that
you're following the rules for general
users users using accessibility devices
and then the last one is seo or search
engine optimization if you want to show
up on google you want to show up in
these search engines google comes to
your site and they're going to try and
figure out what your site is about
now i don't say i'm not saying google
does this but let's just let's just use
this as a thought experiment if google
was to come to our site
and want to figure out
what our site is about
right
what do you think they're going to look
at first
at for can't decide what to make for
dinner
yeah they could look at the h1 if the h1
is the most important content on the
page right
if the h1 is the most important content
on the page then they should probably
look at the h1 right and so there you go
we can see how it can work for general
users assistive assistant devices or
accessibility concerns and then our
search engine observation or kind of our
web crawlers they might be looking for
those things
trying the sound off on you
all right so we looked at some basic
tags last time
we looked at our heading elements right
we looked at our heading elements we
have h1s through h6s
right we have h1 through h6s
and
what we realize is that we pick these
heading elements right there they're
headings that describe the content that
comes after think of like a newspaper
you have a heading and then something
comes after
right you have a heading and something
comes after so
when we're picking those heading
elements what do we use to pick them
gabby lisa does it ever go past h6 no
that's that's where we stop
yeah we're picking these uh heading
elements based on importance exactly
based on importance nice
cool so
when we see an h4 we know that an h4 is
a little bit less important than an h3
less important than h2 and then h1 is
the most important content we have on
our page now we talked about h1s
probably only having one per page
there is as you get deeper into the
semantics of html sections can
technically have their own h1s but for
now let's just think about like all
right most important content let's just
have one
we saw some other elements we saw
for big blocks of text what do we use
big blocks of text big boys big blocks
of text what do we use
paragraph nice
if we want to be
an abomination and have white space be
preserved in our tags what do we use
pre-tags but get out of here exactly and
if you have a short piece of text what
do we want that to be
nice span all right we got it
uh br tags hr tags
skip
i'm gonna skip those
all right
assistant device elements
we have m and strong tags
all right m and strong tags remember we
talked about image strong text being
somewhat like odd if you look at an m
tag it makes our content italicized and
if we look at our strong tag
it makes it
bold if we use an emm strong tag to make
something italicize italicized and bold
it did we violate separation of concerns
yeah
if we use an m and strong tag because we
like the way it looks
it was at this moment that he knew he
up exactly we don't use them
based on how they look we use them
because of what they help us with right
what they help us with when it comes to
accessibility remember individuals that
come to your site and might not be able
to see
hey cross thank you for the 10 gifts it
subs i appreciate that
thank you so much
uh oh cross is here so we can actually
we can actually bring something back
uh you can do exclamation point bingo
uh and this lovely person uh recently
got a job by the way and check out the
celebrations channel
made a bingo game early in the last
last cohort and so some people
religiously play bingo while the stream
is going on
um to to to just have something to help
them stay a little bit more focused and
i repeat a lot of words and i say a lot
of funny stuff and so
there's some things that come up quite
often
so
bingo if you're interested
let's see
let me see if i can grab there we go all
right
tiny dot cc slash leon bingo
and it takes you to a to a netlify app
which will all learn how to use netlify
and we can create a board
and
so you can see lovely things here don't
call yourself a junior dev
join us for office hours
leon mentions his only fans
leon says automagically i say that word
a lot
um
it's not stalking it's networking
no no
someone redeems a soundboard alert um
and so each time you create a card it's
a completely different card and so you
you can play bingo
[Laughter]
if you would like um
tiny dot cc
uh leon bingo and there you go thank you
indifferent
just something fun to do while you're
watching and thank you cross for it and
thank you for the 10 gifted subs i
appreciate you
all right let's keep pushing folks
all right we also talked about there are
lists we have two kinds of lists ordered
lists where if something is not in the
right order it messes up like it's a
problem right so we think recipes should
be an ordered list where as something
like a grocery list doesn't matter if
you put the the bread before the pickles
right
so that that list doesn't matter and so
you can keep a different order
all right we also have containing
elements right
containing elements are how we're going
to group content together they're going
to be the tags that we probably use the
most
divs it's not that divs are are wrong or
you shouldn't use them we just have a
lot more semantic decisions that we can
make these days a lot more semantic
choices that we can use and one of the
common tags that we use a lot are
sections we can group lots of content
together
articles are for content that should be
shared so think
newspaper articles think blog posts
things that you could like cut out and
share those are good articles
and aside if you read the mdn which you
should all have open the mozilla
developers network
thank you booty licker hey i hope you're
doing well
thank you for stopping by
um if you
i still don't i still still can't not
laugh but you're dave
aside is for ancillary extra content
like things like ads or sidebars headers
for content the beginning of a document
footer is for content at the end of a
document beautiful
booty licker has returned
nice
all right
we also talked about there are some
deprecated elements like elements that
we can no longer use right things that
we used to see all the time
right back when we were building our
myspace pages our neopets accounts right
we uh we we we had this idea of blink
tags and marquee tags and bold tags and
i tags why are all these tags deprecated
and no longer used
mon and lucky tiger thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
yeah
a lot of those are css and maybe the
marquee is like javascript right so as
separation concerns became a thing that
we agreed to a lot of this stuff really
shouldn't be part of html and it's
deprecated thank you
all right
we did this brownie code recipe and i
just want to review it quickly i just
want to take a look at what we did
together and then we're going to move on
so
here is the browning code recipe that we
did together
we went through
we chose the different tags that we
thought made the most
semantic
sense right that were based on the real
reason why we would use that tag and we
talked about
we talked about
the importance behind our tags as well
now when we get through here we we have
some stuff that we did that i want to
take a second just to talk about
and uh and and cover a little bit more
deeply before we move on to some new
tags and then finally get our fingers
that going and writing some code of our
own so
one thing we did here is an image
and we talked about this image being a
hot linked image
meaning that we
took somebody else's image that they are
hosting on their own server
and we're linking to that
and we talked about some some some odd
things that could happen
because we are doing that what are some
bad things that could happen because we
are hot linking the image
they could take it down
y'all just y'all popped off of this
so
the twitch has a filter
and when you put stuff that like breaks
the filter i can still see it sometimes
if my mods don't remove it before i see
it
um
but sometimes i get to see him and
they're funny
people said
they could change it to a turd someone
they could they could change it to a
picture of poop
and uh now your lovely website has a
picture of poop on it um so let's let's
do let's not hot link a photo
right
let's go ahead and
let's actually like download a photo so
let's go back to google
and i'm gonna go to google images and
we're going to say brownie
yeah brownies there we go
so if you a lot of folks asked me about
this um
they said leon what was that that was
that bang
gi that i just did uh so i use
duckduckgo as my search engine right and
when you use duckduckgo you have these
bang syntaxes that enable you to do a
bunch of different stuff so if like i do
bang g it takes me to google i do bang
gi takes me to google images i do bang a
it takes me to amazon right so if you
use duckduckgo as you're like your main
search
uh it really does speed up a lot of
things that you do and you get all the
wonderful stuff that comes along with
using duckduckgo
all right give me a moment oh cosmic
brownies
oh give me a second sorry folks
if you uh
i can i can know a lot about you
i know a lot about you
if you grew up
eating a honey bun
and a cosmic brownie for breakfast
i know we've gone through a certain
struggle together
and so that that's how i know
and so give me a second here oh i
haven't seen it i haven't had cosmic
brownie in a minute
all right let's click on this one
nope
i don't want to go there google let me
just right click
um
oh cause this is an ad
this i got got
that's why that i got got
it's an ad when did they start putting
ads in here
oh that's so dirty
that's so
dirty
cause you're like trying to get the
image
and they put ads out there what
wow
they willing
oh
i can't we can't go wrong with these
ones oh look at that
right right click
save image as
and
we're going to
look at all my screenshots i did for the
stream
all right we're going to go to class 3
and we're going to save this as brownies
all right so now we saved our brownies
to our class three folder
so what i can do is if i go back
all right if i go back
and i look
in the folder so when i opened up in
vs code i didn't just open the file i
opened my entire folder and so what i
did is i drug my entire folder
so i have like my hundred devs folder
and then i have my class three folder
and what i did is i dragged this whole
class three folder into vs code
right
uh oh
i just drug it to my desktop anyway i
wanna make sure i didn't screw that over
hold on
i just dragged the folder to my desktop
all right one second i gotta bring that
back
all right
one second
all right there we go so i drug
my
class 3 folder into vs code and what
that did is it opened up the entire
folder for me in vs code right and the
beautiful thing is i just saved
my brownies photo into that class 3
folder you can see it here
right that brownies.jpg you can see it
if i open it up look at that delicious
photo right so now i have the the photo
on my computer i just right clicked
right i just right clicked
see i say certain words wrong because it
increases my engagement you all got got
you're all saying drag drag drag now i
drug it
you don't have to deal with it thank you
for the engagement
you got
you got that um
all right
so i drug the entire folder into vs code
and it opens the whole thing for you now
you can see that like i have like the
file that was just downloaded inside of
the inside of the folder right cool
so now instead of hot linking this photo
what i can do
is i can actually just link to that
photo directly because my brownies.html
is in the same folder as that
brownies.jpg
all right.jpeg right so if i just type
in brownies.jpg
that source will know
from this html file to grab that image
got a lot of hydrates in here tortuga
memphis nomad thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
right and so now i have that lovely
photo that no one can change on me right
no one can change it on me and so if i
go ahead and open this in the browser
you can see that my photo still is there
i don't have the hot linked version
anymore it's the photo that i just
downloaded
right now somebody's saying does this
work on codepen
no because codepen doesn't give you the
ability to upload or download like a
like a an image
on glitch it might work because on
glitch you can upload stuff right you
can upload files and things like that
so that's why i like glitch if you're if
you're going to be stuck
uh like not sorry necessarily if you're
going to be using like say like a
chromebook or you have a computer that
can only really use the browser using
glitch is good because you can upload
different stuff the glitch
right
so if you're going to use glitch
like let's create a new project
um this is a website
it takes a while for glitch to kind of
get going
right it takes a while for glitch to get
going
and there are other things i just i just
happen to like glitch i think it's easy
the cool thing here is you can up you
can like do files right so if i do plus
files i can upload a file
and then
let's go ahead to stream
100 devs
class three i can upload the brownie
and can i do two files at the same time
now just one at a time so i can upload
my brownies.html file and boom my
brownies.html file right
my brownies.html file is just up here on
glitch
let's see if it'll let us do the images
too
not sure
oh assets surprised to do it through
assets yeah upload an asset
brownies.jpg
let's see
cool now we got our brownies.jpeg here
and
cool
and so with this you can actually like
preview and do a bunch of other stuff
right like but now you could go to this
brownies.jpeg
sorry this brownie.html and see it
uh let's see
open preview in a new window
and then let's go to brownies.html slash
brownies.html that was the name of our
html file
all right so it doesn't like the linking
directly to brownies but i'm sure
there's a way to do an english i don't
use glitch that often
but i'm sure there's a way to to take
your asset
and connect it
to the brownies.html
right
oh is there is there a folder called
assets is that what it is let's see
um
let's see
assets
flash brownie that work
oh let's try again
no
i know there's a way to do it i just uh
i gotta look at it yeah so that that's
the idea here right
might have to be like a like a real link
sorry let's try this real quick
let's try that
try it
i'll figure it out when we take a break
but the idea here is
that you can is it uppercase they
wouldn't do that they're not monsters
right
it is a capital a no way
let's check
curious there has to be a way
now
anyway we'll figure it out but that's
the idea right you can if you need to be
if you need to use
just your
um oh yeah because it's going to be in a
separate do you want us to go up a level
see i get i get invested in these things
we should be able to just go in are we
like inside of a folder somehow let's
see one more thing i want to just look
at i'm curious
no all right
we'll figure it out but that's the idea
like if you need to be inside of your
browser right you need to be inside of
your browser and you don't have access
to like the s code or something like
that right you can
use glitch to upload your html and then
we'll figure out how to do the images
and stuff like that as well but that's
the idea is that you can link everything
together
and um and and have it work like that
inside of just your browser so i'm going
to use vs code this whole time that's
what i'm comfortable with that's what i
use right but if you for some reason
can't use vs code there are other
options right
cool
and we'll figure out the image thing i'm
not sure because i don't use glitch that
often cool all right
so here we have our local version of the
image working
we
had some other lovely things down here i
wanted to show out we have our lovely
alt tags that we're working so we have
an anchor tag that opened and anchor tag
that closed and we had the ability to
put in our actual href
right
all right
all right put in actual href right and
there we go
oh i think we did i think people figured
it out yeah so mine was a was a was mine
a jpg let's see
no it was jpg
i put jpeg let's see
no i had it right
i thought that was a good idea though
click the image is it not a jpeg did
they convert it to something else when
it got uploaded
this this is
no
oh it does give us the cdn though
copy url so we can do that
and we can come back to our html
and put it in like that
there we go okay
and then glitch i know you auto save
it's just a habit
boom
there we go
[Laughter]
so they give you a cdn which is pretty
dope so for those of you know where cdna
cdn is for a content delivery network
and what it means is that images are
like
heavy
they take a while to download i know
that like in the modern world we're
going to talk about this tonight right
like
for those that have access to high-speed
broadband images load instantly right
but if you were with me back in the day
we'd be waiting a half an hour for that
image to load
right and so what a cdn does
is it takes that image
and it puts it on servers around the
world right so that you don't have to
wait as long to download that image or
any of your heavier files right so if
you were in say
los angeles but your server was in
london your request would have to go
across the entire united states across
the atlantic ocean and to london and
then back
right so why not put my image
on a server
closer
right and so that's what a cdn can do a
cdn can put your images on servers that
are closer right so that you don't have
to
um wait for that that delay so there you
go cool that's how you can do a glitch i
haven't used glitch too much but i'm
glad to see that it works and so for
folks that have to be in their browser
this is what i recommend
in fact for some of your homework i'm
going to ask you to like put it on
glitch because the other cool thing
about glitch is that you can just share
the the link
right you can share the code you can
share the live link which is pretty dope
and then the other cool thing is for
those that are like in the ketchup crew
you can actually share your glitch with
like other people and collaboratively
edit
which is pretty dope
yeah
and so i i really like that because it's
kind of like a google doc for your code
and so a lot of times we'll see folks
that are like working together on
discord just share a glitch with each
other and go at it
alrighty
keep pushing
but like i said i'm using vs code we're
gonna see me use that the most but i
wanted to show another option for folks
that don't have that that luxury
there's one other thing i wanted to show
you what you'll be noticing i do a lot
is i uh right-click
and i open in my default browser
there are many of plugins that you can
use this is one of the very few plugins
i'll ask you to use in the beginning
or extensions as vs code calls them and
that's called an open in browser
plugin i use tech er's open in browser
plugin right and what that does is just
opens the file for you and you're in
your default browser so instead of
having to like drag your file to the
browser or doing file open in the
browser it just opens it
i don't like live preview or any of
those in the beginning um just because i
i want you to get used to saving
i know it sounds really dumb
to have to like get used to saving but i
really do want you to get used to saving
because i've had so many people like in
real interviews
like staring at their editor because
that you don't always use like your own
editor you use some other like like like
you use like a editor that's in the
cloud right i've had people in
interviews staring at going like i don't
know what's happening like it should
work because they didn't save
so get used to saving for a week or two
and then if you want to use things that
like auto save and refresh for you do it
but get used to saving refreshing just
so it becomes some muscle memory so that
when you're like in the actual interview
you don't get got it sounds silly
um
occ said i've done that live coding
interview didn't update because i didn't
save exactly so get into the habit so
that like something clicks in your brain
when it does happen so i use the opening
browser one
which i find really helpful
something else a lot of people were kind
of confused about last time
is that you can change a lot of settings
in vs code and so on mac os it's command
comma on your operating system it might
be control comma but that opens up
settings and you can type things like
html and it'll give you all your
settings for html so i just did command
comma which opens up settings you could
also do like
code and then preferences which will
take you to settings but i did command
comm it might be control comma on yours
and then in settings you can type in
html and i have my um
auto closing off
right i don't like that auto closing
where like i open up i open a tag and it
automatically closes it so i turn that
off so just some settings that i use uh
to make my life a lot easier while i'm
using vs code i wanted to show you some
local images we're gonna have lots of
practice with like local images local
files when we get to css because we've
got to get good at it so i just wanted
to show you the basics today with
something that we've already seen
and what we're going to do now
is we are going to move into html
structure we're going to learn about uh
a really important topic called
progressive enhancement we're going to
see some new tags like nav tags and then
we're going to actually start coding out
some websites together but before we do
that
we got to take a break
if you're new around these parts we like
to stay healthy we like to make sure
that we
get our uh if you're able to that you
get up you move around you stretch
you let your eyes relax on something
that's not your screen
you grab some water you hydrate you say
hello to your loved ones
uh
yeah yeah yeah yeah maybe you say hello
to your haters i don't know you pop on
twitter for a second but uh whatever you
do just like
leave if you're able to uh and and and
and come back to us in five minutes
all right i'm gonna put the timer on
the music on
and i'm gonna give y'all what you really
want
bob
what do you think of notepad plus plus
i mean i used it like 15 years ago but
uh now vs code is where it's at
do you vape nah
great stuff so far learning life hey
glad you are
thanks remember
do you like people always i i mean i
like digimon i haven't like been
involved in it in a very long time
do i make vegan fun at home of course
like all the time
the red storm light archive no i have
not
can we see your computer set up it's
wild it's it's super ridiculous
one of these days i'll i'll share a
photo with y'all but it's it's it's
pretty wild
i request bob on screen
for channel points goal
it's just the camera points the bob i
keep talking but it's just bob the whole
time i love it
good one
you watch sports not really the only
sports i really watch a rugby and a
little bit of soccer here and there
what mouse and keyboard should you get
whatever's the cheapest and serves your
purpose
it's more like keyboards are more about
like
really deep personal preferences
or if you're talking about like being
like safe just like typing posture and
ergonomic stuff is way more important
than like the gear you actually use and
then keyboards come in so many shapes
sizes colors flavors like it's just you
could go all in on that
rotor rifles
oh you just start playing that's pretty
cool
yeah
i want to join a new team this uh this
fall
that's the goal
what kind of rubber duck should i get
there are so many fun weird ones out
there get one that's fun
all right folks come on back come on
back
how about that microsoft news yeah did
it actually go through
like did they actually buy them or no
because they bought them that's wild
good on them
it's actually gone through dope
yeah so microsoft bought activision
blizzard
um
bring that to uh xbox game pass please
you know
let's get in there does it cost a lot of
money
oh could like your wow subscription
be part of xbox uh we're just getting
ahead of ourselves here
welcome back both hope you had a good
break
68 billion
yes
all right folks come on back hope you
all did well
yeah that's what i thought apple yeah
they got to go underneath some sort of
review right like they gotta make sure
it's
not some sort of monopolistic behavior
or something like that but that's pretty
wild if it does actually go through
all righty look at how you got my
posture right j coder got my hydration
right thank you
all right
welcome back welcome back
let's chill the music here so we looked
at that brownie code recipes that we did
together
um but there was something that we
didn't get a chance to get into on
uh on on on thursday that's like how we
actually structure
our html right and so our html has a
structure that we should
bring to each html document
right so a very common structure for an
html document is to have this doctype at
the top
and this doctype lets the browser know
kind of like what what type of html are
we dealing with
right what type of html are we dealing
with here because
if you look back a couple years ago
and you're looking at something that was
pre like html5 that doctype was messy
and long right but when you see this
nice clean doctype you know that you're
dealing with the latest the greatest the
html5
right
and then we have
the largest or we call the root element
so every single thing
that goes on your html document goes
inside of that html tag so we call that
the root tag
and whenever you have a root tag
anything that goes inside of it are its
children so in html
we have the html element which is the
root element and then everything else
inside of it is a child
right whenever you have something inside
of something we call that a parent-child
relationship so here we see inside of
the html we have the head and the body
we would say that the head and the body
are both children
of the html element
right
and then what you'll notice
is that the head and body are like where
everything happens
right
excuse me
thank you all right the head and the
body are where everything happens
right
and
the head is for everything that the
browser needs to do its job
right
and the body is everything that we can
see and interact with
so if you can see it you can click on it
you can look at it right you can
highlight it that content has gone
into
the browser
right
i did censor my sneeze you were here for
it
um
everything you can see and interact with
goes in the body
right the stuff that the browser needs
to do its job like what characters are
we using uh any of the meta stuff that
we're eventually going to get into all
that stuff goes into the head so the way
i like to remember this
is damn this joke does not work today
hold on
i do this right
this joke doesn't work today there we go
hold on one second there we go better
the way i like to remember this
is that
you can see my sexy body
but you can't see what's going on inside
my head
right
you can see my sexy body
but you can't see what's going on inside
me let that burn into you for saying
hold on
you can see my sexy body
but you can't see what's going on inside
my head okay that's the same thing that
you have when we get to
our html
if you can see it interact with it it
goes inside the body
right you can see it you can interact
with it it goes inside the body but if
you can't see it if it's something that
just the browser needs to do its job
that goes inside the head so
if we were to go back to our html here
where does all of this stuff go inside
every single thing that we just coded
out with the brownie recipe where does
that all go
it goes inside the body nice
oh it goes inside the body so
let's actually
set that up
something neat inside of most text
editors and specifically vs code is that
you can do a little shortcut
so if we go to the top here
and i just type html
and i hit
tab it kind of does everything for me
let me let me do that again hold on let
me let me do it i just typed out html
and i went to this like html5
right like because i do the html just
gives me html tag but
if i type out html
and i get this little drop down i go to
html5
and i just hit tab
it gives me everything that i just
showed you
so you don't actually have to type it
out um it does make it a little bit
quicker for you
and this is like the one time that i
would recommend you do it everything
else i think you should type out heck i
even think you should type out this
stuff
right i think you should even type out
this stuff
as well right but you can see there's a
lot of stuff here that the browser might
need and and don't worry about this
stuff here for right now we'll cover all
this stuff when we get to like css but
for right now
we got our doctype html
we got our root element and then it's
two children the head and the body and i
always like to indent so i always do a
little tab just to indent
and then all of the content that we did
before
right
all the stuff that we did before
i'm going to cut it or command x in my
case or ctrl x in your case
cut it i'm going to come up to the body
i'm going to paste it in there
now for some reason it didn't auto
indent so i'm just going to highlight it
all
and i'm going to indent now leon why do
you indent
i indent
because whenever you had a parent
child relationship right whenever you
have a parent-child relationship you
want to put a little respect on the name
right
you just want to do the indentation so
it's easier to see
right it's easier to see that this h1 is
inside of the body
right
it's easier to see that this h1 is
inside the body the image is inside the
body so whenever you have a tag
that is inside of another tag put a
little respect on the name and we indent
okay
right now is my code saved
nope it's not safe you can tell
because i have this little little white
dot up top here that's how you know it's
not saved so as soon as i do command s
or control s if you're in a different
operating system you can see that it's
now saved
if i go back
and
i refresh is there anything that's going
to change here i added all this extra
html but is anything going to change
no
right
we just added more structure to our html
and as we start to build out richer and
richer sites and eventually applications
this stuff all starts to be needed right
all starts to be needed right
thank you for the hydration cheers to
you
also just to make sure that we're
agreeing to those rules remember we
talked about like why do we have to
follow these rules because it will help
our junior general users it'll help our
accessibility users it'll help our
screen readers right and so we've got to
make sure
that we are following these uh rules so
that we can serve all the best interests
of our users and there's a lot of stuff
going on here right like we see this
lang preference which is for letting the
browser know that we are doing
a site that's in english you can also do
like a left to right um or right to left
designation so that you know which way
you're gonna read
uh the the the the language right
there's a bunch of other stuff that as
we get into it we'll go over we talked
about the chart set the other day
um but there's a bunch other stuff
that'll just go in here more meta than
that's what's here right now so don't
worry about that for right now
we're gonna go into that more stuff when
we get to css
cool
um some folks are saying how did i do
that let me do it again for you so i
just came up here
i typed in html and i went to like see i
have these options i went to the html5
one and hit tab
all right now this won't work
this won't work
unless your file is saved
as an html file if it's not saved as an
html file it won't know
what options to give you
right so make sure that it's an html
file yeah i didn't type in the carrot it
was just i just typed out the word html
and hit tab but if it's not saved as an
html file you won't get those options so
make sure it's saved as an html file and
then you'll get those options
how do i how do i indent so fast i hit
tab
you know
a lot of people keep asking tabs versus
spaces i have my tab set the spaces
cool
alrighty folks
let's look at some new tags
let's look at some new tags here
all right
this navigation tag is something that we
got with
html5
right with html5 we got some new tags
and one of the tags that came along with
us was a nav tag
a nav tag short for navigation is for
the content that's going to help your
user move around your website right and
so you got to think that there are a lot
of
repeated code in our sites these days
right when you go to a site there's
often some content at the top
right there's some content at the top
that enables you to move around that
site right and so if we look at
something like uh khan academy we have
this this this kind of
this this navigational content that's
gonna be at the top
of every single page right
and sometimes you might have like let's
say like you're amazon right let's say
you're amazon and you have
thousands and thousands if not hundreds
of thousands of pages
and google comes to your site and they
see
this word donate over and over and over
again or they see like buy gift cards
over and over and over again they might
start to think you're trying to do some
shady stuff called keyword stuffing
where you're trying to convince google
that your site is about
say donation or your site is about
um
uh gift cards or something like that but
that's not what you're saying
what you're trying to say is hey
i need this stuff to navigate around the
site it's probably going to show up over
and over and over again and so what
we're able to do is have these lovely
nav tags and in terms of like search
engines they kind of just get like
ignored right like they don't count
against you they don't count for you um
but you don't worry about that too much
right now what they do is it just
enables you to have like repeated
content across all your pages and
useful in a way so that you know that
you're going to use this to navigate
really helpful when it comes to screen
readers as well they know that they can
use the content in that tag to help them
move around
right
got a lot of hydrates that came in
cheers to you all thank you
ruby thank you for the stretch
i'm gonna get a little chair stretching
thank you thank you
cool so whenever you have navigational
content we're going to use this lovely
nav
tag
right and we're going to see this over
and over again we're going to we're
gonna we're gonna put this into practice
right we're gonna put this into practice
but this nav tag is something we're
gonna use to help us
when it comes time to having content
that directs people around your site so
right up here we see a nav on techcrunch
we maybe have like a nav on the left
hand side on bbc we had a nav up top as
well so this idea is that we're gonna
have these navigational elements that
enable us to move around our application
now
inside the nav we often have a list of
links like the places that we're going
to go to and so that's why you would
often see like a ul with llis and anchor
tags inside
cool
now so far
right so far
we have only
shown data to users
right we've only shown
data to users right
but how do we get data from users what
can we use to get data if you did the
shahal reading you should know this
already what do we do how can we get
data from users we use a form exactly
and so here we have a form tag
and a form is an open and closing tag
that wraps around inputs just like you
have an o l and a ul that wraps around l
i's like you would never have just an li
right your your lis are always going to
be wrapped in an o l or a ul
right
always going to be wrapped in an o l or
a ul
same thing with a form we're going to
have inputs and those inputs are always
going to be wrapped in a form tag now
form tags have some
pretty cool what are these called what
are these called up here let me ask
y'all what is that called what are these
called
yeah
forms have some pretty cool attribute
value pairs we want to worry about them
right now when we get to like building
our full stack applications these become
a lot more important uh actions are like
what happens when the form submits so if
you've ever submitted a form and it's
taking you to like a thank you page or a
confirmation page it could have been one
of those those attribute value pairs
that helped you do that
and then also like what are we doing
with that information are we sending it
somewhere that's where the post comes in
but like i said you don't know about
these
attribute value pairs just yet we'll get
to them later on when it becomes
important
but what we do need to know is that
inside of a form
can go a bunch of different kinds of
inputs
we can have text inputs password inputs
tell inputs email inputs button inputs
all these different types of inputs that
can go inside of a form and there's a
lot of them with html5 we got a lot of
these new input types and the mdn has a
full list of them uh should you want to
see them right so mdn has a full list of
all the input types
um but let's go ahead and build a simple
form together so i'm going to go back to
my brownie dishes here and i'm just
going to go ahead and give myself a
little form at the top here's a little
bit of room
and i'm going to go ahead and just do
form
and i'm going to hit tab there we go
cool
so i have my form
i don't really care about any of the
attribute value pairs for right now we
can just let that be
and inside of my form i'm going to put
three inputs
i'm going to do input type text and then
i'm also going to do
an input type tell and an input type
email
so let's go ahead and do tell
and let's go ahead and do email
cool is my site saved
nope some folks are saying that they
can't see the screen
that's most likely due to your quality
settings so the beautiful thing is that
we have quality settings you can change
the quality of the sh of the
screen to a higher quality if you have
the bandwidth to do it
all right and then sometimes you just
gotta refresh yeah sometimes you gotta
refresh all right so now it's saved
beautiful and let's go ahead and take a
look at this in the browser
here's which one it was there we go
all right let me refresh
because i can't see it right
i can't see i can't see my form yet why
can't i see my form yet
i say let's go back let's look
i saved look my my my x is a circle my
my circle's an x
all right why can't i see the form
i didn't refresh
my
that's weird
what happened oh there we go i just
didn't scroll up i didn't refresh
right
i had to refresh and then i had to
scroll up
i didn't refresh and then i had to
uh so now that i've refreshed
you can see my form
but there's something interesting
let's go back and take a look at these
real quick
um some folks are saying wait the input
doesn't have a closing tag it's one of
those very few tags that are
self-closing the input is content itself
we're not wrapping around
content right it is an input it doesn't
need a closing tag it's not wrapping
around content it is self-closing just
like images right
but we have these different types text
tell email but when i go back nothing
really changed about each three of them
right they're all the same they'll look
the same i know we don't care what it
looks like when we're writing html but
they all look the same so why with html5
did we get all of these new
like input types
well something really important changed
no cheating if you watched the class
before something really important
happened
something fundamentally changed about
the way that we use the internet
something big
a massive impact on everything that we
do
how we consume the internet
what we use on a regular day-to-day
basis it just kind of consumed how the
internet functions and works so what
changed yeah mobile
and so with mobile we need
ways of
helping
one very particular things how do phones
and mobile change inputs like what do we
need
with inputs um if we're using a mobile
yeah
tony got it
we need we need different keyboards
right we need different keyboards when
we type when we have an input type text
is going to give us like a normal
keyboard
we have input type tell it's going to
give us the number pad when we have an
input type email it might give us the at
sign or like your email provider on the
keyboard so we needed all these
different types of keyboards and the
wonderful types and the inputs help us
with that
cool
there's also one other thing i want to
show you about forms that are really
helpful
and so here we have a form and i'm going
to have a label and there are a couple
different ways of doing labels but let's
just say that this was um
we want we want the first input to be
like your your first name
let's let's put a label called first
name
right first name and what i want to have
happen
is i want to tie this label
to this input
and the way you can tie a label to an
input is by having the same four
attribute as the id attribute on the
input so i'm going to give the 4 the
attribute of zebra
right
and i'm going to use zebra a lot
because there is nothing in html
css or javascript right that has the
word zebra in it or zebra if you want to
say it that way right
um
you
want to have a way like i want a way to
like show you that like i'm making it up
so if i use zebra or zebra anywhere i am
making that word up so my label is going
to have a 4 of zebra and i'm going to
give this input the id
of zebra
cool
so my label has the four
and my id has the zebra as well i'm
gonna save this i'm gonna go back
let me refresh
all right
so now
i have this label let me let me get a
little bit bigger here
i have this label
and what i'm going to do is i'm going to
click on the label
okay
let me go ahead and click on save
already three two one
did you see it
you see what happened one more time one
more time hold on i'm gonna click on
this label
three
two
one boom you see what happened
ah we got this cursor so when i clicked
on the label it focused in that input
right it focused for us it focused in on
that input i clicked the label and it
focused in on that input
okay now why might that be important
like why why might we want that to be a
thing like why go through
the
the extra labor of creating labels for
each of our inputs
yeah accessibility
and so accessibility is great because
individuals might be reading out your
website so the website might be read out
to them and then as they're kind of like
hovering over the text they want to be
able to tap that text right so that the
it can focus into that input for them
and so it might be harder for them to
find the inputs but they might be able
to tap the text and have it focused for
them so there are some accessibility
concerns there there are some things
that make it easier for folks to
interact with your forms and so i want
to show you some of these basics we'll
get deeper into forms our forms will do
more but for now this is some very
simple forms and you'll see more in the
reading and the homework that you get as
well
cool
all right i said this is the most
why am i saying why zebra
so i use zebra a lot
and i taught a class
uh at ga
and it was like a it was just like a
front-end class which is like two nights
a week for 12 weeks
they're phenomenal classes i love
teaching them
and i always use zebra as my example
and
at the end of that cohort um a person
came up to me they gave me a beautiful
zebra
pencil as like a thank you
and said it's called zebra and then they
walked out
and so as an homage to that wonderful
person i now say zebra uh they i think
they were from south africa where it is
pronounced zebra and not zebra
and i think i think folks from south
africa should be dictating how we say
zebra um more than
than my
philly ass should be saying uh how zebra
said so i'm gonna call it zebra
cool
now
i said that this
was the second most important thing
we're going to talk about tonight and
it's called progressive enhancement and
progressive enhancement
is
a really important concept for a lot of
our users and all
all progressive enhancement really means
is that we should be focusing when we're
building our websites at the core of our
website should be our content our html
right that should be our chief focus
that's why we start with html if you're
thinking about building a website your
focus should be the content the html and
then we're going to take that html and
put a nice chocolatey coating around it
and that chocolatey coating is our css
and we're going to wrap that chocolate
and peanut in a very thin
candy coating that is our javascript
okay
so the idea here the idea here is that
the core and the most important is the
content the html we wrap some
presentation on it and then the very
last thing is that very thin candy
coding
and what you need to do is you have to
realize
that not everyone has
broadband internet access in fact a lot
of your users a lot of your consumers
might not have access to super fast
internet
right and so if you are pulling in all
the latest and greatest css you're
pulling in all the fancy
client-side javascript and you're making
your sites
heavy
right you're making your sites
that
increases the page load speed of that
site
let's look at a site let's look at cnn
cnn.com
i'm going to do something i'm going to
right click inspect
and don't worry about seeing this so i'm
just going to show you something i'm
going to go to network
and i'm going to refresh
ready
hard refresh
and what we're really trying to focus on
and let me turn off let me let me turn
off the ad blockers here turn that off
turn that off
and we're going to do a refresh here
and we're gonna let this run for a
second give me a second here
so what i just did is i just refreshed
the cnn website
okay
and what we're seeing it's still loading
you see all that movement that is it's
still loading
right
we're 26 seconds in
and there's still stuff happening
there's 17 megabytes of resources that
are coming in
897 requests that have been made so far
remember when you go to a website you
make a request to a server and you get
stuff back oh my
i don't know if i can stream that um
you're getting all those responses back
so that's like almost a thousand
requests that have been made to
different content
right 21 megabytes of resources
right and there is
a good chance
that some of our users might not be able
to load that site
that's a lot that that's somebody's data
cap that we're eating into just going to
a news website
right
just going to a news website 21
megabytes of space over a thousand
requests
and so this really escapes progressive
enhancement
but they realized that
they said you know what
let's get back to our roots
right let's make it so that our users
that may not have access to high-speed
broadband could still use our site and
they did what a lot of sites are doing
now
and they made a light version of cnn so
this is light.cnn.com
right let's do the same thing let's go
ahead and inspect
let me turn off my ad blockers for this
site again there's notice there's only
one that popped up
and let's go to network
and let's do a hard refresh
so we're not even at we're at like a
third of a megabyte
right
and only five requests
as opposed to a thousand
and
untold megabytes of of data right
and so this
is a beautiful website that takes into
account progressive enhancement the idea
that the thing that people really care
about
right hey rob thank you for the bits
the thing people really care about
are
the articles the stories right and so
they they want to be able to look at
that and have a clean experience this is
a beautiful website in terms of
progressive enhancement because
it just gives you what you want
there is no need
for
the chocolaty coating maybe a smidge of
css and definitely no need for the the
heavy javascript right
and it's important to keep these things
in mind and i pulled this up
in 2017
the u.s said that 22 million americans
or roughly 35
of the nation's rural residents did not
have broadband access
let's think about that in just 2017
in 2017
22 million americans about 35 percent of
all rural residents lacked broadband
access
so that's
a huge portion of your consumers a huge
portion of folks that are trying to
access the internet that if you go out
and you wild out and you add
tons of really heavy things to your site
that doesn't really matter right
it doesn't really matter
you are impacting your users now
something that was really cool
that i looked up to is that
in 2015
aol had 2 million dial-up subscribers
in 2015 aol had 2 million dial-up
subscribers they now said that they have
very few like they like like in the
thousands but in just 2015
2 million people still were paying for
aol dial up and that's just aol
so when you think about progressive
enhancement i don't want you to think
about some other places like even in
just the us which has
decent infrastructure we still have lots
of individuals that do not have access
to broadband and so then when you expand
that to the rest of the world you got to
think about do you want to reach people
or not and you should be keeping
progressive enhancement in mind
i actually just got i don't know if it's
in the room
i just got a 56k modem because i want to
do some fun stuff with it but yeah
all right
so with all that we have in mind and all
that we've learned let's look at this
bbc website
let's see if we can um
if we can get this going here let's see
if we can get get some things pop in
here and see if we can start writing
some code together so
let's go ahead and look at the bbc
website
right
so we look at the bbc we got a few
things that are happening here
we got
what do we have up here at the top
what do we got up here at the top
where we say that is
we definitely know it's a nav
and that nav might be inside of another
tag we talked about one tag very very
briefly
that that nav might be sitting in
anybody know what that might be
yeah it could be our header so we know
that
we know that everything on this page
right you know everything on this page
is sitting inside the what
everything we can see right now sitting
inside the what
yep it's sitting inside the body
sitting inside the body perfect and then
inside that body we know that we have
our header
and inside our header we probably have
our nav
and then inside of our nav we probably
have like our
ul and all of our allies
all right so just by taking a quick look
at this
i know that i have like my header my nav
my ul my lis
probably my anchor tags inside of those
allies
and then we also have something over
here
that search what is that going to be
a form
exactly
somebody says why are you well well it's
because we have a list of links we have
a list of links they don't have to be in
a specific order so it's not an ol since
it's a list of links we put them in a ul
cool so if we look at this we have a
header a nav ul lies maybe a form
cool
how about when we look here
would that be
big block taking up some space what
a section nice how about welcome to
bbc.com
what would that be
maybe some sort of heading
some folks might say that's dh1 some
folks might say that might be an h2 it's
up to you
um
i'm thinking the h1 might be one of
these down here
that seems really important if you come
to bbc that's the thing they want you to
know their h1 might change a lot all
right
maybe we got some another section here
that's holding the heading the paragraph
and the span
maybe we got four more sections over
here
each holding maybe a heading and a span
all right down here we probably have
like another
section
and maybe
three sections inside of that
and maybe some sort of maybe like an h2
for news
and then inside of those sections maybe
like an image an h3 a paragraph a span
maybe an image a heading a paragraph and
a span right
so what you're seeing me do right here
is something i do
with every single site that i ever get
right
i mark it up some folks are saying are
they articles
so articles i think are interesting
there are some people that are purist
when it comes to the articles
and it's used just for articles like
things that you would clip out and share
to me
these all link to the actual article
right these all linked to the actual
article so some developers would say oh
if they actually link to the article
then they're not actually articles
they're like links to the article
that'll be the actual articles right and
then there are some people that say
actually
those things could be shared so maybe
you can also give them article tags as
well
so it's kind of a decision you have to
make are you a purist that says that
that's not really an article just links
to one or is that something that could
also be shared right it could also be
shared and therefore is an article
all right
to you
i'll show you why i do it but don't take
my word for it reading rainbow you know
um
but what you're seeing here this this
mess on my screen
right
is what i do
for every single layout
if i ever am on the job or i have a
client and i work with a designer and
they give me a layout
i
i until i got an ipad i printed it out
so maybe until like a year or two ago i
printed it out i'm not ashamed to admit
this i printed out every single design i
ever got
and i would sit down with a pencil and a
piece of paper
and i would
draw out my boxes all right this is
going to be a section this is going to
be a heading
this is going to be a header and i would
sit there and i would draw it all out
and then that just helped me think
through it so that when i went to my
boomer
so when i went to my my my html i kind
of had like a direction like i knew
where i was going
and so whenever i give you a design that
you have to write the html and then
starting next week to css for i really
recommend like
drawing it out
some people will use some sort of
program on their computer to draw it out
some folks will literally print it out
and draw on it but i really think
there's a lot of value
and and drawing it out even if you just
have a blank piece of paper and you draw
your boxes on that blank piece of paper
it really does help my brain think
through all the decisions i have to make
so that i can go ahead and and get
through them you know
let's look at another one
khan academy we're looking up here
everything we see everything that we see
right now is inside the what
everything we see is inside the body all
right how about this area up here
would that area be
yep that's the header nice
inside the header we have the what
we got the nav all right inside that nav
we got some
somewhat
and maybe a nav and then maybe like a ul
and there's some some lis in there right
we could definitely see some li's and
some anchor tags and then maybe in one
of those li's we have a
or maybe outside of the the the now
depending how you think about it we have
a form
we have a what how about that what would
that be
an image nice then these would just be
like normal allies and those allies
would have what inside of them
yeah those those lies would have anchor
tags and there are links that go
somewhere to sign up to log in to donate
cool
all right how about this this uh white
area here what could that be
yep that's probably a section nice
inside that section we have
a what would that be
an image of some sort beautiful
and then we have
a what
would that be
h1 nice
how about this here
would that be
paragraph nice i feel a paragraph there
and this one's tricky
what do y'all think this could be
what are those what are those
to me
it's a it's a ul
with lis
and anchor tags inside of them
each one of those i think are links to
other places
they just so happen to look like buttons
now i don't care what they look like
we'll get to that with css so are they
buttons or are they anchor tags
to me it's gonna be a ul li with anchor
tags inside
i can even see some people saying that's
also a nav
right like if that if that's navigation
that's going to take you to learners
teachers district's parents and that
shows up on every page then that could
be like a nav to me but for me right now
i feel comfortable with like a ul line
anchor tags inside
cool
about below right here i'm just getting
to the fold
another what
another section nice
and then how about this inside of the
section
h2 nice look at us go
look at us go
come on now look at us go
y'all just knew every single thing on
this site this is like a normal
in production site and y'all are just
blasting through this right i told you
it's not it's not too much right like
you learn some of the basics beyonce has
arrived you learn some of the basics and
you could start to really kind of to
really do the html for these sites now
we're going to get to css and stuff next
week but for now like y'all rocking and
rolling with this html kudos to you well
done let's do one more
techcrunch oh this one's a little
a little odd
um
what is everything we see inside of
everything we can see right here
so what are we inside of
body
alright when i look at this i kind of
see like three distinct areas
all right i see that
that and that
okay
so what would this be
it's definitely a nav right definitely
nev
some people might throw it in a header
some people might not i think it could
be a header it's the beginning of the
document notice why i always say
beginning of a document i don't say top
or bottom right it could be a header it
could have a nav inside of it could just
be a nav right
uh inside of that nav
we have a what
what's inside of that nav
a ul exactly with l i's and inside of
those l i's are probably what
anchor tags nice
we also have probably up here like an
image that's their logo or something
cool
how about the box next to it what would
that be
like this this this uh big boy over here
what would this be like that whole box
what would it be
section i could see being a section that
comes down to that argument again right
is that a section is an article to me
section some other folks might argue and
say no it's an article but to me
articles are meant to be fully shared
right
so i would say section here and then
what would this be at the top
h1 i feel an h1 there yeah most
important thing it's like their biggest
headline you come here that's what they
want you to walk away with
how about the person underneath
amanda
a would to be
it could be a span
could also you can make an argument that
doesn't describe the content that comes
after because if it describes the
content that comes after it's a heading
and maybe we have to start thinking
about what type of heading it might be
based on how important we think it is if
you don't think it describes that
content describes that that section at
all then it would be a span
yeah
i might i might lean into the heading
category here the heading camp on this
one and then this one should be easy
what would that be
yeah an image cool
and then we got something interesting
over here on the right
got something interesting over here on
the right
what do you what do you all think that
this this uh
this could be
i see a lot of people saying in a side i
don't think it's an aside i think that's
important content i i think it's not
ancillary or extra
or something that they could like remove
and the site still be okay i think these
are like they're like important stories
like they want you they definitely want
you to go to these stories right
so to me
this could be a section
and then inside that section could
definitely be a ul
some people might just make it a ul
which can be weird right but like you
could just make it maybe a ul
it could be a section with a ul inside
of it
or some people might even do a section
with an article inside and those could
all be all four of those could be
articles
i actually think techcrunch does list
those as articles but to me i'm a purist
i think articles are meant to be shared
and that to me isn't i think those
linked to articles so for me this would
be a
ul
well it would be a section
with a ul
with lis with anchor tags inside
but or maybe not even anchor tags it
might be headings first
like h2s
and
either i would say spam
right
so that that's what mine looks like i
think this box is a section
and then this whole thing is a ul
and then each of these are list
and each of those lis has a heading in
them and a span
i'm literally using my fingertip because
my apple pencil doesn't work for some
reason
y'all don't blame look we already talked
about this we've been through this
don't blame me
blame the nuns don't blame me blame the
nuns we've been through this
now
this can be overwhelming at first
right
and so what i really want to put on
yourself
is
don't worry about perfection here
pick the most semantic thing you can
think of and go with that you're gonna
have plenty of time to figure all this
out the high heavens
give yourself a little bit of grace give
yourself a little breathing room write
vomit code get something on the board
get it working
right
you don't have to have it perfect it
doesn't have to be the best html in hell
if i give this if i give this image to
10 different front-end developers i am
getting 10 completely different sets of
code back
so
nobody has this perfect right nobody has
this perfect it's up to you to make the
best semantic decision
that you can reason about and then put
it into practice
okay
it could be inside of an anchor tag too
like
this stuff could be wrapped in an anchor
tag
like that h2 and span could be inside of
an anchor tag um so like that the the
whole thing that like that whole area
could be clickable
and that could that whole thing could be
an anchor tag
it seems like the box is not clickable
but the heading is uh and so that gets
us into some interesting territory
cool
are all these layers nesting yes they
are they are nesting so what i want to
do is i want to i want to do one quickly
together i know we're going to go a
little over i actually thought we could
end a little bit early which is you're
going to find as a meme
i want to do one together
and then we'll wrap for the evenings i
want you i want to i want you to get
some fingers on keyboard time
right once you get some fingers on
keyboard time and then um i want you to
we're going to do a raid right we're
going to do a raid and then uh after the
raid like after you've hung out in the
raid a little bit you've given them some
like some follows you shared the love a
little bit uh i want you to maybe finish
it up i like this tech crunch one i
think this one's weird
i think this one's weird uh and so since
it's weird
i want to take a look at it
all right i want to take a look at it
so let's go ahead and look at
um
let's go ahead and look at this one so
we already kind of talked through it so
i'm just going to open up a html file
all right
i'm going to go ahead and open up an
html file
and i'm just going to do file new
so on my library system i do command n
it might be control n for you
and what i'm going to do is i'm going to
immediately save this as an html file so
i'm going to call this
tech
crunch dot html so i did command n
all right i did command n
uh
and when i did command n
uh that brought me to
[Music]
the new file and i immediately saved
that file the command s to save the file
and i'm just going to call it
techcrunch.html
you have to save it as an html file if
you do not save it as an html file you
don't get all the stuff that we kind of
just walk through that can help you
so now that i've saved it as an html
file
i can just type out the word html
yep
and i'm going to do the html5 hit enter
now i have my head i have my body and
i'm ready to rock and roll
i like to indent my head and body
a little respect on the html element's
name
and then inside the body
right
inside the body i'm gonna start writing
my my my html here
so
i have let's just say that that's the
header
and we're gonna have uh an image and
then we're gonna have a nav with uh ul
and li so let's go ahead and put our
header in here
cool
and you don't have to code along for
right now kind of just watch this one
this isn't like you don't have to be
coding this live like
pay attention watch ask questions and
then we'll go over it together
all right so i have my header inside my
header i know i have like an image
and then i have my ul
in some of you i have my lis
and inside my allies had my anchor tag
and that anchor tag was all different
stuff so it was search well that's
probably like a form of some sort but
startups techcrunch
let's just say startups
and i'm just going to copy and paste
this because there's like
eight of them
all right so there's some of them
and just uh to
to have some placeholders
when i do the octothorpe there we go
so the idea here is we looked at it we
said that this whole area
was a header maybe
like i said we don't care we're we're
trying to figure this stuff out there's
no perfection here there's no absolutely
right absolutely wrong thing inside that
header we had like our logo which was an
image
we had uh maybe a ul with a bunch of
links in it and so that's what we're
kind of working through here we got our
header the image let's just put like
logo in here
as well as the alt we had a ul
right with a bunch of lis and anchor
tags in it but let's think about this
what is this
it's a nav exactly it's a nav
and so if we go ahead we should actually
put that all in a nav
i'm going to go ahead and bring out my
nav and i'm going to put my ul in there
boom there we go
so now we got a nice header
we got a nice nav our ul our lis are
looking good
right
maybe the image is inside the nav that
could be true
would be okay
maybe we have an li that's just for the
for the logo that's fine
could be
is this saved
not saved nope
there we
go uh we also
i have some other stuff in here this
might be like a form
we could wind up with like a form in
here somewhere like we might have a form
outside the nav
it depends on whether or not
it depends on whether or not this search
shows up on every single page
right if this search shows up on every
single page we might we might put it in
the in the inside the nav that would be
okay
like we can do that
remember fight the urge to pick stuff
based on how it looks
right
all right and then we could have like a
text for like our search
right
all right so the idea being here that we
could have
uh image
in our nav maybe the form is inside
there maybe it's inside one of our
allies
the idea here is that like it's it's
it's i want you to be a little bit
free-flowing with this don't don't get
caught up in it having to be perfect
right we're kind of riffing here a
little bit we're trying to think through
the semantic decisions behind what we're
doing right and if it doesn't have to be
perfect right get the idea of it being
perfect out of your head it just doesn't
don't worry about that right now you're
gonna have years and years to be perfect
right now get a win on the board get get
some ideas flowing right think through
what it should be
right
cool
all right so we i think we got a rough
idea of what the header might look like
i'm going to save it and let's go look
at this next portion
all right we got like this next big
thing which i'm probably going to say is
a section
and so i'm just going to put a section
after my header here
some folks might argue an article here
but i'm going to go with a section i'm
going to have an h1 in it and
microsoft
eyes
activision
by blizzard right
uh brooks you it's your quality settings
you have to improve your you have to
change your quality settings on twitch
if it looks blurry
well
jax thank you for the hydration
cabin
thank you for posture check
real both thing for hydration
cool all right so we got that section
with the h1 microsoft buys blizzard
let's take a look at it again
we have the amanda silverling
um that could be it could be a span or
it could be some sort of heading that
describes the content that comes after
i don't know
does the person's name actually describe
the content it is their article
i'm not going to get up in my my feels
about it for right now i'm just going to
say a span
something i might come back to right i
might come back to you and say you know
what
that that that should be um
that should be somebody's like that that
describes the content might come back to
it
right
and take another look
image that's definitely an image for me
and so i'm gonna go and put an image in
here
and i'm just going to put the often for
now and that's going to be like the
i think it was like the
call of duty
activision there you go
is it okay to be lost it absolutely is
okay to be lost but uh you better jump
in one of those voice channels and get
help you know
this is stuff that you should have seen
in the shay how but if it's your first
time ever being in a tech center and
your first ever even looking at this
stuff it's going to be completely just a
it's like a whole different language
right and so it's okay to be lost it's
okay for a lot of stuff not to make
sense but you got to put in the
cognitive effort to get over it right
you got you got to put in the work to
get there so come back re-watch the
video if you have to make sure you're
doing your active recall whatever i do
you try doing afterwards right so when
you're done the raid make sure you
yeah yeah yeah yeah you go back you know
all right
so got that section there a lot of stuff
we might come back and change we might
add some anchor tags here or there
all right we've got this last one over
here like this last area
i'm just going to say a section with a
ul in it
and that's what i'm going to come over
here and do
cool section with the ul
and then each one of those lies is going
to have for me
it was like an h2 we'll say h2
some text
and then
um there was like a span
which was the person's name
let's go back and take a look real quick
yep
heading maybe a span
and then these were all like in a in a
in a list somehow
cool
might add anchor tags here we might
might make some of these things
clickable
right right this whole thing might be
inside of an anchor tag
uh the the the text here
right the text here
that might be uh an anchor tag so let's
go ahead and get rid of that real quick
so we might put like our sum
text
and we might make it an anchor tag
right
all right we might make it an anchor tag
right so like i said there's a lot of
little things you can come back and do
and i want you to play with this right
the idea is i want you to play with
these things so
i showed you
a kind of a quick run through
right i'm going to share this file after
class of course but i want you to come
back i want you to re-watch this i want
you to see if you can come to some of
the same
same ideas that i came to
get the practice right get the practice
of typing all this out right so i'm
going to share this file but what i want
you to do
tonight like what i want you to do if
you have time tonight or as part of your
homework i want you to take this tech
crunch
right and type it out
right get get this get this nav going
get this section going get this this
list going right i want you to do the
same thing for khan academy talk through
it get it going
we have the same thing for the bbc
homework
get it going you got to practice it you
gotta get into your text editor you
gotta you gotta mess up you gotta make
sure that things aren't like things
aren't right right you gotta make sure
that like you
you you play with it
right
and the more you do it the more you get
in there the more you practice the more
you feel
uncomfortable
the easier this becomes
okay
so do what you got to do jump into a
voice channel re-watch the video in a
voice channel i'm sure you have a bunch
of folks that'll join you talk through
together talk through your semantic
decisions together if you're catching up
as a vod jump into the ketchup crew
channel watch it together talk through
it together practice it together get
your fingers moving get into your text
editor to break stuff it doesn't
have to be
perfect so that's what i really want you
to focus on tonight is that it does not
have to be perfect
right
you you you saw me making some guesses
some educated guesses i put in there i
might come back to i might change it but
it doesn't have to be
perfect
okay this is your first time
right it's your first time for a lot of
you writing html
and so let's get into it when we come
back on thursday
yeah we shift some gears though folks we
get into some css so make sure you've
gotten through the shay hal reading and
we're going to do a little little
little little raid here
um
we
we talked about the primogen let's see
if they're live
let's see
i think they're live yep let's go and do
a raid remember the when you raid you
you get you get the channel points you
want the channel points folks it's all
about the channel points
all right so let's go ahead and get a
raid in primogen uh they're they're a
wizard on the keyboard that's what i
want you to say i want you to see
what you could what you could get up to
like how your how fast your fingers can
move uh how
how uh how lit your code could become
and so let's let's go ahead and raid
prime while they're live
we're going to the primogen uh folks
asked me to say it out loud before we do
it so we're ready in the primogen we're
going to start the raid and we're going
to be over there in 10 seconds but
please give yourself some grace
get into your text editor
have some fun break some things
i'm going to see you all on thursday to
do it all again
cool i'll see y'all over there folks
peace a wonderful evening
let's raid